US010585927B1 ( 12 ) United States Patent ( 10 ) Patent No .: US 10,585,927 B1 ( 45 ) Date of Patent : Mar. 10 , 2020 Liao et al . ( 54 ) ( 56 ) References Cited DETERMINING A SET OF STEPS RESPONSIVE TO A HOW - TO QUERY U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS ( 71 ) Applicant : Google Inc. , Mountain View , CA ( US ) ( 72 ) Inventors : Kerwell Liao , San Francisco , CA ( US ) ; Nikhil Sharma , Mountain View , CA ( US ) ; LaDawn Risenmay Jentzsch , Mountain View , CA ( US ) ; Jennifer Ellen Fernquist , San Francisco , CA ( US ) 
 6,658,598 B1 * 12/2003 Sullivan G06F 11/2294 714/25 9,053,423 B2 6/2015 Proux 9,183,072 B1 * 11/2015 Makuch G06F 11/0709 2003/0011629 A1 * 1/2003 Rouse G06F 16/40 715/705 2003/0115191 A1 6/2003 Cooperman et al . 2005/0080782 A1 4/2005 Ratnaparkhi et al . 2006/0200371 A1 * 9/2006 Spector GOON 5/00 706/45 2008/0005075 Al 1/2008 Horvitz et al . 2008/0104037 Al 5/2008 Biemer 2008/0235179 Al 9/2008 Kurien et al . 2008/0294423 Al 11/2008 Castellani et al . ( Continued ) ( 73 ) Assignee : GOOGLE LLC , Mountain View , CA ( US ) ( * ) Notice : Subject to any disclaimer , the term of this patent is extended or adjusted under 35 U.S.C. 154 ( b ) by 122 days . Primary Examiner Polina G Peach ( 74 ) Attorney , Agent , or Firm Middleton Reutlinger ( 21 ) Appl . No .: 15 / 447,235 ( 22 ) Filed : Mar. 2 , 2017 ( 63 ) Related U.S. Application Data Continuation of application No. 13 / 927,545 , filed on Jun . 26 , 2013 , now abandoned . ( 51 ) Int . Cl . G06F 16/00 ( 2019.01 ) GO6F 16/338 ( 2019.01 ) G06F 16/33 ( 2019.01 ) G06F 16/30 ( 2019.01 ) G060 30/02 ( 2012.01 ) U.S. CI . ??? G06F 16/338 ( 2019.01 ) ; GO6F 16/3349 ( 2019.01 ) ; G06Q 30/02 ( 2013.01 ) Field of Classification Search CPC combination set ( s ) only . See application file for complete search history . 
 ( 57 ) ABSTRACT Methods and apparatus related to providing steps for com pleting a task based on analysis of multiple sources . A how - to query related to performing a task and a plurality of sources related to the how - to query may be identified . A set of steps related to performing the task may be determined based on analysis of the plurality of sources that are related to the how - to query , optionally including determining a confidence measure for the plurality of sources . The set of steps may be associated with the how - to query in a database . The set of steps may be provided to a user in response to the how - to query submitted by the user . In some implementa tions the analysis of the plurality of sources that are related to the how - to query may include comparing components of different sets of steps and identifying the common elements to determine a set of steps . ( 52 ) ( 58 ) 15 Claims , 5 Drawing Sheets Identify a how - to query related to performing a task 600 
 Identify a plurality of sources responsive to the how - to query 605 
 Determine a set of steps to perform the task based on the plurality of sources 610 
 Associate the set of steps with the how - to query and store the set of steps 615

US 10,585,927 B1 Page 2 ( 56 ) References Cited U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS 2009/0089044 A1 2009/0100381 A1 * 4/2009 Cooper et al . 4/2009 McAfee G06Q 30/02 715/855 2009/0106224 A1 2009/0150387 Al 2009/0157617 Al 2009/0183237 Al 2009/0187572 A1 2010/0077008 A1 * 
 4/2009 Roulland et al . 6/2009 Marchewitz 6/2009 Herlocker et al . 7/2009 Cortes et al . 7/2009 Ives et al . 3/2010 Davis 
 2011/0302521 A1 * 12/2011 Jiang GO6F 3/0481 715/779 2012/0042002 A1 2/2012 Smith et al . 2012/0078837 A1 3/2012 Bagchi et al . 2013/0007033 A1 * 1/2013 Brown G06F 17/28 707/764 2013/0097179 A1 * 4/2013 Moshrefi GO6F 16/9535 707/748 2013/0117204 Al 5/2013 Vadlamani et al . 2013/0117668 A1 5/2013 Joseph et al . 2013/0132357 A1 * 5/2013 Edgar G06F 17/30864 707/706 2013/0262568 A1 10/2013 Raffel et al . 2013/0275392 A1 * 10/2013 Bhatt G06F 16/3331 707/692 2014/0136519 A1 * 5/2014 Latzina G06F 16/951 707/722 2014/0259017 A1 * 9/2014 Murray G06Q 10/10 718/102 2014/0280087 A1 * 9/2014 Isensee G06F 16/2455 707/723 
 2010/0332500 A1 * 12/2010 Pan 2011/0035402 A1 * 2/2011 Agrawal 
 G06F 16/93 707/797 G06F 16/951 707/759 G06F 17/30864 707/769 G06F 16/951 715/709 G06F 16/24578 707/728 2011/0055699 A1 * 3/2011 Li 2011/0179024 A1 * 7/2011 Stiver * cited by examiner

U.S. Patent Mar. 10 , 2020 Sheet 1 of 5 US 10,585,927 B1 
 100 
 Content Database 120 
 How - to Query Response System 130 Network 101 Search System 140 Scoring System 135 Client Device 110 Browser 115 FIG . 1

U.S. Patent Mar. 10 , 2020 Sheet 2 of 5 US 10,585,927 B1 
 How - to Query Prefix Query Number Keywords and / or key phrases " remove tar " , " clothing " 1 how to 2 how can I " remove tar ” , " clothing " how to remove tar from clothing how can I remove tar from clothing ? how do I remove tar from fabric remove tar stains stain buster – tar 
 3 how do " remove tar " , " fabric " 4 Missing prefix Missing prefix " remove tar " , " stains " " stain buster " , " tar ” 5 
 FIG . 2 
 Source A Source B B1 A1 Source C C1 C2 C3 A2 B2 B3 A3 B4 Group Steps Selected Step ( s ) B2 First A1 , B1 , B2 , C1 A2 , B3 , C2 A3 , B4 , C3 Second Third A2 , B3 C3 
 Determined Set of Steps B2 A2 B3 C3 FIG . 3

U.S. Patent Mar. 10 , 2020 Sheet 3 of 5 US 10,585,927 B1 
 410 How to clean tar from clothing 400 Search Best guess : 420 From : Source A , Source B , and 3 others - 430 440 
 1 450 FIG . 4 510 How to clean tar from clothing 500 Search Low Confidence guess : 530 Materials Needed : 1 f 540 Tools Needed : 550 Required Steps : A , B , C , and D Optional Steps : E and F 520 FIG . 5

U.S. Patent Mar. 10 , 2020 Sheet 4 of 5 US 10,585,927 B1 
 Identify a how - to query related to performing a task 600 
 Identify a plurality of sources responsive to the how - to query 605 
 Determine a set of steps to perform the task based on the plurality of sources 610 
 Associate the set of steps with the how - to query and store the set of steps 615 
 FIG . 6 
 Identify a plurality of sources responsive to a how - to query 700 
 Identify one or more groups of steps from the plurality of sources 705 
 Identify one or more steps from each group of steps 710 
 Determine the set of steps to perform the task based on the identified one or more steps 715 
 FIG . 7

U.S. Patent Mar. 10 , 2020 Sheet 5 of 5 US 10,585,927 B1 
 810 Storage Subsystem 824 825 826 Memory Subsystem 832 830 File Storage Subsystem ROM RAM User Interface Input Devices 822 812 ? 
 814 816 820 Processor ( s ) Network Interface User Interface Output Devices 
 FIG . 8

1 
 5 
 10 
 US 10,585,927 B1 2 DETERMINING A SET OF STEPS the step ; and identifying the one or more steps from the RESPONSIVE TO A HOW - TO QUERY group of steps based on the relevance scores . In some implementations determining the confidence BACKGROUND measure for a given source in the plurality of identified sources may be based on one or more of a ranking of the This specification is directed generally to providing step given source , frequency of visits to the given source , number by - step instructions for completing a task based on analysis of links to the given source , cohesiveness of the given of multiple sources . source , and user feedback related to the given source . Users often search for step - by - step instructions on how to In some implementations determining the set of steps to perform a task and may be presented with multiple sources perform the task may include determining one or more steps of information related to performing the task . in the set of steps from a source based on the confidence measure of the source . SUMMARY The method may further comprise receiving a submitted The present disclosure is directed to methods and appa- 15 query and providing the determined set of steps in response ratus providing step - by - step instructions for completing a to the submitted query , the submitted query related to the task based on analysis of multiple sources . A how - to query how - to query . In some implementations the method may related to performing a task and a plurality of sources related further comprise determining a quality measure for the to the how - to query may be identified . A set of steps may be determined set of steps provided in response to the submit determined that may enable a user to perform the task . The 20 ted query . The method may further comprise : determining a determination of the set of steps may be based on analysis query score for the submitted query , the query score indica of the plurality of sources that are related to the how - to tive of confidence that the submitted query indicates a desire query , including determining a confidence measure for one to receive steps for completing a task indicated by the or more of the plurality of sources . The set of steps may be submitted query ; and providing the determined set of steps associated with the how - to query in a database . The set of 25 in response to the submitted query based on the query score steps may be provided to a user in response to the how - to for the submitted query . query being submitted by the user and / or in response to a The method may further comprise determining one or similar how - to query being submitted by the user . In some more of a skill level required to perform the task , time implementations the analysis of the plurality of sources that duration for performing the task , a list of tools needed to are related to the how - to query may include comparing 30 perform the task , and a list of materials needed to perform components of different sets of steps and identifying com the task . mon elements to determine a set of steps . In some implementations identifying the how - to query In some implementations a computer implemented may include one or more of identifying task terms in the method may be provided that includes the steps of : identi how - to query and identifying search results related to the fying a how - to query related to performing a task ; identi- 35 how - to query . fying a plurality of sources responsive to the how - to query ; In some implementations identifying the how - to query determining a confidence measure for one or more of the may be based on one or more user - initiated actions . plurality of identified sources , the confidence measure of a Other implementations may include a non - transitory com given source indicative of effectiveness of the given source puter readable storage medium storing instructions execut in providing steps for the task of the how - to query ; deter- 40 able by a processor to perform a method such as one or more mining a set of steps to perform the task based on the of the methods described herein . Yet another implementation confidence measures for one or more of the plurality of may include a system including memory and one or more identified sources ; and associating the set of steps with the processors operable to execute instructions , stored in the how - to query and storing the set of steps to be provided in memory , to perform a method such as one or more of the response to the how - to query . 45 methods described herein . This method and other implementations of technology Particular implementations of the subject matter disclosed herein may each optionally include one or more of described herein determine a set of steps to perform a task . the following features . Particular implementations of the subject matter described In some implementations identifying the plurality of associate the set of steps with a how - to query and sources may include identifying a user manual and including 50 store the set of steps to be provided in response to the the user manual as one of the sources . In some implemen how - to - query . Particular implementations of the subject tations the set of steps to perform the task may be based on matter described herein may provide the set of steps in the user manual . response to the how - to - query . The method may further comprise : identifying one or It should be appreciated that all combinations of the more groups of steps from the plurality of sources ; identi- 55 foregoing concepts and additional concepts discussed in fying one or more steps from each group of steps ; and greater detail herein are contemplated as being part of the determining the set of steps to perform the task based on the inventive subject matter disclosed herein . For example , all identified one or more steps . In some implementations the combinations of claimed subject matter appearing at the end method may further comprise : determining similarity mea of this disclosure are contemplated as being part of the sures between the steps from the plurality of sources ; and 60 inventive subject matter disclosed herein . determining the one or more groups of steps based on the similarity measures . The similarity measures are based on BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS one or more of keyword matching , phrase matching , parse tree matching , distributional similarity scores , and edit dis FIG . 1 is a block diagram of an example environment in tance scores . In some implementations the method may 65 which a set of steps to perform a task may be associated with further comprise : determining , for each step in each group of a how - to query and stored to be provided in response to the steps , a relevance score indicative of the confidence level of 
 herein may 
 how - to query .

US 10,585,927 B1 3 4 FIG . 2 is an example table illustrating the identification of ( " change a car tire ” ) that identify the task of changing a car how - to queries . tire and includes inquiry terms ( “ how do I ” ) that are indica FIG . 3 is an example illustrating the identification of one tive of a desire for information that may be utilized in or more steps to perform a task from a plurality of sources . changing a car tire . FIG . 4 is an example graphical user interface for provid- 5 A query may be identified as a how - to query by the ing a set of steps to perform the task . how - to query response system 130 utilizing one or more FIG . 5 is another example graphical user interface for techniques such as those disclosed herein . In some imple providing a set of steps to perform the task . mentations a how - to query may be identified as a how - to FIG . 6 is a flow chart illustrating an example method of query based on one or more key terms and / or key phrases associating a set of steps for performing a task with a how - to 10 that may be included in the query . For example , a query may query and storing the set of steps to be provided in response be identified as a how - to query based on matching a prefix to the how - to query . of the query to one or more inquiry terms . The prefix of a FIG . 7 is a flow chart illustrating an example method of query is a sequence of one or more terms occurring at the determining the set of steps to perform a task . beginning of a query . Inquiry terms includes phrases such as FIG . 8 illustrates a block diagram of an example computer 15 “ how to ” , “ how do I ” , “ how does one ” , “ does anyone system . know ” , “ where do I find instructions to ” , “ where can I get instructions to ” , “ can someone tell me ” , “ teach me to ” , and DETAILED DESCRIPTION “ tell me how ” and / or terms such as “ how ” , “ where ” , “ instructions ” and “ ? ” . In some implementations the how - to Technology described herein is useful in determining a set 20 query response system 130 may identify a query as a how - to of steps to perform a task , and more particularly , to associ query if it includes a prefix with one or more inquiry terms ating the set of steps to perform the task with a how - to query and also includes one or more additional terms following the and storing the set of steps to be provided in response to the prefix . In some implementations matching a prefix of the how - to - query . In some implementations the set of steps may query to one or more inquiry terms may be combined with be provided in response to the how - to - query . 25 additional techniques , such as those disclosed herein , in FIG . 1 illustrates a block diagram of an example envi determining if a query is a how - to query . ronment 100 in which a set of steps to perform the task may Also , for example , a query may be identified as a how - to be associated with a how - to query and stored to be provided query based on matching one or more terms of the query to in response to the how - to query . The example environment one or more inquiry terms and also matching one or more 100 includes a communication network 101 that facilitates 30 terms of the query to one or more task terms . In some communication between the various components in the implementations the how - to query response system 130 may environment . In some implementations the communication identify a query as a how - to query if it includes one or more network 101 may include the Int rnet , one or more intranets , inquiry terms and also includes one or more task terms . For and / or one or more bus subsystems . The communication example , the query “ change flat tire ? ” may be identified as network 101 may optionally utilize one or more standard 35 a how - to query based on matching of the terms “ change flat communications technologies , protocols , and / or inter - pro tire ” to the task phrase " changing a flat tire ” and matching cess communication techniques . The example environment of the term “ ? ” to the inquiry term " ? " . Also , for example , 100 may also include a client device 110 , a content database the query " remove tar instructions ” may be identified as a 120 , a how - to query response system 130 , and a search how - to query based on matching of the terms " remove tar system 140. The client device 110 may execute one or more 40 to the task phrase " removing tar ” and matching of the term applications , such as a web browser 115. The client device “ instructions ” to the inquiry term “ instructions ” . Exact 110 may be , for example , a desktop computer , a laptop , a matching and / or soft matching between terms of a query and tablet computer , a mobile phone , a tablet computing device , inquiry terms and / or task terms may be utilized . In some a computing device of a vehicle of the user ( e.g. , an implementations a list of key terms and / or key phrases in - vehicle communications system , an in - vehicle entertain- 45 ( including task terms and / or inquiry terms ) that may be ment system , an in - vehicle navigation system ) , a wearable frequently included in how - to queries may be stored in a apparatus of the user that includes a computing device ( e.g. , database , such as content database 120. For example , the a watch of the user having a computing device , glasses of the database may include a list of inquiry terms and a list of task user having a computing device ) . Additional and / or alterna terms that may be utilized in identifying how - to queries . In tive computing devices of the user may be provided . In some 50 some implementations a listing of task terms may be iden implementations the how - to query response system 130 may tified based part - of - speech tagging , semantic analysis , syn include a scoring system 135. In some environments the tactic analysis , and / or other techniques . how - to query response system 130 and the scoring system In some implementations the frequency of inquiry terms 135 may be separate components of the environment 100 . and / or task terms that are included in a query may be utilized A how - to query is a search query that identifies a task and 55 in determining if a query is a how - to query . For example , in that indicates a desire for information that may be utilized in some implementations data related to the frequency of key performing the task . How - to queries include one or more terms and / or key phrases ( e.g. , frequency in queries and / or task terms that identify a task and optionally include one or frequency across another corpus of documents ) may option more inquiry terms that indicate a desire for instructions ally be stored in the content database 120 and utilized in related to performing the task . For example , “ how to remove 60 determining if a query is a how - to query . For example , in tar from clothing ” is an example of a how - to query that some implementations a query may only be identified as a includes task terms ( “ remove tar from clothing ” ) that iden how to query if it includes one or more inquiry terms and tify the task of removing tar from clothing and includes includes one or more task terms that are associated with at inquiry terms ( " how to " ) that are indicative of a desire for least a threshold frequency . For example , “ how do I make a information that may be utilized in removing tar from 65 cake from scratch ” may only be identified as a how - to query clothing . As another example , " how do I change a car tire ” if the task terms " make a cake from scratch ” occur with at is an example of a how - to query that includes task terms least a threshold level of frequency in past queries . Thresh

US 10,585,927 B1 5 6 olding based on frequency of one or more task terms in past some implementations the determination of whether two or queries may enable only queries associated with tasks that more how - to queries are similar may be based on soft are searched for with at least a threshold level of frequency matching of the inquiry terms and exact matching of the task to be identified as how - to queries . terms . In some implementations the determination that two In some implementations the frequency of submission of 5 how - to queries are similar may be based on exact matching a query may be utilized in determining if a query is a how - to of the inquiry terms and soft matching of the task terms . In query . In some implementations data related to the fre some implementations soft matching between terms and / or quency of submission of queries having the key terms and / or phrases may be based on determining an edit distance key phrases of a query may optionally be stored in the between the terms and / or phrases and comparing that to a content database 120 and utilized in determining if a query 10 threshold . In some implementations soft matching between is a how - to query . For example , in some implementations a terms and / or phrases may be based on comparing canoni query may only be identified as a how - to query if it has been calized versions of terms and / or phrases . For example , the submitted with at least a threshold level of frequency . For inquiry terms could be stemmed and their stop words example , “ how do I make a cake from scratch ” may only be removed , before matching . Stop words include words that identified as a how - to query if the query ( and optionally 15 are common and may include articles such as “ a ” , “ an , " variants thereof ) constitutes at least threshold level of que “ and , ” and “ the ” ; prepositions such as “ of , ” “ to ” and “ for ” ; ries in a record of past queries . Thresholding based on auxiliary verbs such as “ have ” and “ were ” ; and / or typical frequency of submission of queries may enable only queries initial words in questions such as “ who ” , “ how ” and that are submitted with at least a threshold level of frequency “ where ” . In some implementations soft matching between to be identified as how - to queries . 20 terms and / or phrases may be based on semantic analysis . For In some implementations the how - to query response example , a term may be considered to match with one or system 130 may identify and associate similar how - to que more synonyms for the term . ries with one another and store the associations in a database Additional and / or alternative matching techniques may be such as content database 120. Similar how - to queries may be utilized . For example , the similarity between terms may be queries that indicate a desire for information to generally 25 based on the semantic distance , or length of path along edges perform similar tasks . For example , " how to remove tar between the terms in an external resource such as a lexical from clothing ” , “ how can I remove tar from clothing ? ” , database . The lexical database may include key terms and / or " how to remove tar from fabric " , " remove tar stains ” , and phrases including words , nouns , adjectives , verbs , adverbs , " stain buster — tar ” may be identified as similar how - to etc. and their conceptual and / or semantic inter - relationships . queries because they indicate a desire for information to 30 In some implementations the key terms and / or phrases may generally remove tar . As another example , “ how do I change be grouped based on the meaning of the key terms and / or a tire ? ” , “ how to change a flat tire ” , “ how to change a tire phrases , and / or their syntactic relationships to other key step by step " , " changing a tire ” , and “ change a flat ” may be terms and / or phrases . In some implementations a database identified as similar how - to queries because they indicate a such as content database 120 may include distributionally desire for information to generally change a car tire . In some 35 similar inquiry terms and / or task terms and their correspond implementations similar how - to queries may be identified ing distributional similarity scores . Phrases that typically based on comparison of their respective inquiry terms and / or occur in similar contexts may for example be considered to task terms . have similar meanings . For example , a first phrase that Additional and / or alternative methods may be utilized in co - occurs with the same words as that of a second phrase identifying a how - to query such as methods based on 40 over a collection of documents , such as html web pages , may analysis of search results and / or search result documents be considered to be distributionally similar to the second related to the how - to query . For example , one or more search phrase . Identifying two or more queries as similar may be results responsive to a query may be analyzed to determine utilized in one or more steps of methods described herein . if the search result is associated with a search result docu For example , queries may be grouped together in determin ment that provides steps related to performing a task iden- 45 ing if a collective frequency of query is great enough to tified by the query . For example , in some implementations constitute identifying such queries as how - to queries and the first X highest ranked search results responsive to a determining a set of steps to perform a task identified by query may be analyzed to determine if at least a threshold such queries . Also , for example , identification of sources for number of such search result documents provide steps determining the set of steps and / or any ranking associated related to performing a task identified by the query . Also , for 50 with such sources may be based on a ranking of the sources example , in some implementations the search result docu for each of multiple similar queries . Also , for example , ment associated with the search result having the highest associating a set of steps with a how - to query may include selection rate for a query may be analyzed to determine if the associating the set of steps with similar how - to query . search result document associated with the search result Referring to FIG . 2 , an example table illustrates the provides steps related to performing a task identified by the 55 identification of how - to queries . The query “ how to remove query . tar from clothing ” has inquiry terms “ how to ” and task terms In some implementations similar queries may be identi " remove tar ” , " clothing ” . The inquiry term " how to " iden fied by the how - to query response system 130 by utilizing tifies the query as a query seeking information related to one or more methods including keyword matching , phrase performing a task . The task terms " remove tar ” and “ cloth matching , and / or contextual similarity matching of phrases . 60 ing ” identify the task . As discussed herein , in some imple Additional and / or alternative methods may be utilized such mentations the inquiry terms and / or the task terms may be as methods based on determining similarities between identified by the how - to query response system 130 based in respective search results and / or search result documents part on comparing the terms with stored entries in a data related to the how - to queries . In some implementations base , such as content database 120. The stored entries may determination of whether two or more queries are similar 65 include , for example , terms that frequently occur in how - to may be based exact matching of inquiry terms and / or exact queries . As another example , the query “ how can I remove matching of task terms for the respective how - to queries . In tar from clothing ? ” has inquiry terms “ how can I ” and task

US 10,585,927 B1 7 8 terms “ remove tar ” and “ clothing ” . As another example , the 120 may only include past queries having submission rates query “ how do I remove tar from fabric ” has inquiry terms above a certain threshold . In some implementations the “ how do I ” and task terms " remove tar ” and “ fabric ” . As content database 120 may only include data that satisfies a another example , the query “ remove tar stains ? ” has an time threshold . For example , any queries that are more than inquiry term “ ? ” and task terms “ remove tar ” and “ stains ” . 5 a year old may not be stored in the content database 120 . The query “ stain bustertar ” does not have inquiry terms . Additional restrictions may optionally apply to any stored However in some implementations the how - to query data such as the exclusion of blacklisted queries and / or the response system 130 may identify this query as a how - to exclusion of how - to queries not issued by more than a query based at least in part on the task terms “ stain buster ” predetermined number of users . The content database 120 and “ tar ” . 10 may be collectively stored in one or more computers and / or In some implementations similar how - to queries may be storage devices . identified among the queries of FIG . 2 based on a matching In this specification , the term “ database ” will be used of terms and / or other techniques . For example , the words broadly to refer to any collection of data . The data of the “ clothing ” ( queries 1 and 2 ) and “ fabric ” ( query 3 ) may be database does not need to be structured in any particular determined to be similar based on their shared semantics . In 15 way , or structured at all , and it can be stored on storage some implementations the how - to query response system devices in one or more geographic locations . Thus , for 130 may identify that the words “ remove ” and “ tar " appear example , the content database 120 may include multiple in the first four queries . Based at least in part on such collections of data , each of which may be organized and identifications , the how - to query response system 130 may accessed differently . identify that the first four how - to queries are similar to one 20 In some implementations users may interact with the another . Additionally and / or alternatively , the how - to query search system 140 through one or more client devices 110 . response system 130 may identify that the words “ tar ” and The client devices 110 and the search system 140 may each “ stains ” appear in the fourth and fifth queries , and that the include memory for storage of data and software applica words “ remove ” and “ buster ” are similar based on their tions , a processor for accessing data and executing applica shared semantics . Based at least in part on such determina- 25 tions , and components that facilitate communication over tions , the how - to query response system 130 may identify the communication network 101. The client devices 110 may that the fourth and fifth how - to queries are similar to one execute applications , such as web browsers ( e.g. , web another . Accordingly , in some implementations the how - to browser 115 executing on client device 110 ) , that allow users query response system 130 may identify that all five how - to to formulate how - to queries and submit them to the search queries are similar to one another . In some implementations 30 system 140. The search system 140 may receive how - to the how - to queries and their identified associations with one queries from one or more client devices 110 and may another may be stored in content database 120 . execute the how - to queries against a content database 120 of In some implementations content database 120 may available documents such as web pages , images , text docu include a collection of how - to queries issued by users . In ments , and multimedia content . The search system 140 may some implementations , for each of a plurality of tasks , 35 identify content which matches the how - to queries , and may content database 120 may include data indicative of a respond by generating search results that are provided to the number of queries that have been issued that are related to one or more client devices 110 in a form that can be performing the task . In some implementations a how - to presented to the users . For example , in response to a how - to query related to performing a task may be identified by the query from the client device 110 , the search system 140 may how - to query response system 130 based on a threshold 40 provide a search results web page to be displayed in the web number of queries issued by users that are related to per browser 115 executing on the client device 110 . forming the task . For example , the threshold percentage may In some implementations the identification of a how - to be identified as 0.2 % —that is , at least 0.2 % of all issued query may be based on identifying one or more user - initiated queries during a specified time interval have to relate to actions . In some implementations the content database 120 performing a task in order for a query related to the task to 45 may store data that is indicative of a user - initiated action . be identified as how - to query . For example , the how - to query The user - initiated actions may include , for example , a pur response system 130 may access content database 120 to chase made by the user , selections made by the user of identify that queries similar to the query " how to remove tar search results provided by the search engine , resources from clothing " constituted 0.1 % of all queries that were visited by the user , a download initiated by the user , a search issued during the specified time interval . Accordingly , hav- 50 query issued by the user , a post by the user on a social ing failed to satisfy the threshold percentage of 0.2 % , networking platform , a locational query issued by the user , queries similar to the query " how to remove tar from a location check - in by the user , an email communication , clothing ” may not be identified as how - to queries by the and so on . The term " check - in ” , as used herein , includes a how - to query response system 130. As another example , the user - approved and / or user - initiated indication of a visit to a how - to query response system 130 may access content 55 location . For example , a user at a Location A may be database 120 to identify that the queries similar to the query provided , via a mobile computing device , with an option to “ how do I change a tire ” constituted 0.6 % of all queries that verify that the user is at Location A. For example , the option were issued during the same time interval . Accordingly , to verify may be in the form of a prompt provided to the user , having satisfied the threshold percentage of 0.2 % , queries such as , for example , “ Would you like to check - in to your similar to the query “ how do I change a tire ” may be 60 current location ? ” along with a list of selectable options identified as how - to queries by the how - to query response including “ Location A ” , “ Location B ” , and “ Location C ” . system 130 . The user may select “ Location A ” in response to the prompt In some implementations the content database 120 may to check - in to Location A. Also , for example , a user may optionally include time stamp data and / or session identifi choose to automatically check - in to one or more locations cation data that facilitate grouping of queries , videos , docu- 65 visited by the user . For example , locational data may indi ments , users , computing devices , and / or other sources of cate that the user is at Location A , and the user , via a mobile information . In some implementations the content database computing device , may automatically check - in to Location

US 10,585,927 B1 9 10 A. Additional and / or alternative techniques to check - in to a airport , and the locational query may be identified as an geographical location may be utilized . indication of a desire for information on how to park at the In some implementations any user - initiated actions iden airport . The how - to query response system 130 may option tified from a mobile phone and / or other client devices 110 ally recommend a how - to query to the user that would return may not be identifiable to a specific user . For example , in 5 a set of steps on how to park and / or identify the set of steps situations in which the systems discussed herein collect and provide the set of steps to the user . Locational queries personal information about users , or may make use of may be directional locational queries that may be issued by personal information , the users may be provided with an a user to one or more mapping services . For example , a user opportunity to control whether programs or features collect may issue a directional locational query to a geographic user information ( e.g. , information about a user's social 10 location on a client device 110 and one or more mapping network , email communications , browsing history , social services may be utilized to return a map with directions to actions or activities , a user's preferences , or a user's current the geographic location . As another example , a user may geographic location ) , or to control whether and / or how to issue a directional locational query to a device equipped receive content from the content server that may be more with GPS for turn - by - turn directions to a geographic loca relevant to the user . 15 tion . For example , the identification of a how - to query may be One or more of such user - initiated actions may be com based on identifying a user's purchase of a replacement part bined to identify a how - to query . For example , electronic for a vehicle . The how - to query response system 130 may communications may indicate that the user may be relocat identify the task of installing the replacement part into the ing to another city , and the user's browsing history may vehicle , and the purchase may be identified as an indication 20 indicate that the user is searching for elementary schools in of a desire for information on how to install the replacement the new city . Based at least in part on such combined part into the vehicle . Based at least in part on the user's user - initiated actions , the how - to query response system 130 purchase , the how - to query response system 130 may iden may identify the task of finding an elementary school , and tify the how - to query as “ how do I install the replacement the user - initiated actions may be identified as an indication part into the vehicle ” . The how - to query response system 25 of a desire for information on how to find an elementary 130 may optionally recommend the query to the user and / or school in the new city . The how - to query response system identify a set of steps responsive to the query and provide the 130 may optionally recommend a how - to query to the user set of steps to the user . that would return a set of steps on finding an elementary As another example , the user may download complex school and / or identify the set of steps and provide the set of software . The how - to query response system 130 may 30 steps to the user . identify the task of installing the software , and the software A plurality of sources responsive to a how - to query may download may be identified as an indication of a desire for also be identified . In some implementations content database information on how to install the software . The how - to 120 may include identifiers ( e.g. , an address ) of sources that query response system 130 may identify the how - to query as are responsive to identified how - to queries . For example , the “ how do I install the software ” . The how - to query response 35 search system 140 may identify search result documents that system 130 may optionally recommend the query to the user are responsive to a how - to query and an identifier for one or and / or identify a set of steps responsive to the query and more of the search result documents may then be associated provide the set of steps to the user . As another example , the with the how - to query in the content database 120. In some user may issue a search query via client device 110. In some implementations a source may be associated with the how - to implementations the search system 140 may receive the 40 query based on a selection rate of the source and / or an search query and the how - to query response system 130 may amount of time that one or more users spend viewing the identify the search query as a desire for information on how source after navigating to the source . For example , sources to perform a task related to the search query . For example , that have a relatively high selection rate and / or for which the user may issue a search query for new houses in a city . users spend a relatively high amount of time viewing may be The task identified by the search query may be that of 45 more likely to be associated with the how - to query . The looking for a new house in the city , and the search query may sources may include search result documents associated be identified as an indication of a desire for information on with the how - to query search results and / or other documents how to find a new house in the city . that are responsive to the how - to query . Another example may be that of a user posting a comment In some implementations the sources may include a user on a social networking platform that indicates a desire for 50 manual that is responsive to the how - to query . The user information on how to perform a task . For example , the user manual may be authored by a technical writer and may may post a comment stating : “ Stuck in the middle of include a set of instructions to assist users in performing one nowhere with a flat tire ” . The how - to query response system or more tasks . For example , a user manual for a car may 130 may identify the task of replacing the flat tire , and the include , inter alia , instructions on how to replace the car's post may be identified as an indication of a desire for 55 tire with a spare tire . As another example , a user manual for information on how to replace the flat tire . Accordingly , the a client device 110 may include instructions to assist the user how - to query response system 130 may identify the how - to with the initial configuration of client device 110 and / or query as “ how do I change a flat tire ” . The how - to query assist the user in troubleshooting common problems related response system 130 may optionally recommend the query to client device 110. Generally , a user manual for a given to the user and / or identify a set of steps responsive to the 60 object may include one or more of a title , links to other query and provide the set of steps to the user . sources , a how - to guide with specific instructions to perform In some implementations a map - based query such as a one or more tasks related to the object , a list of materials locational query issued by the user may be identified as an and / or tools needed to perform the one or more tasks , and / or indication of a desire for information on how to perform a a guide to troubleshoot common potential problems . task . For example , the user may issue a locational query for 65 In some implementations the how - to query response directions to a busy airport . The how - to query response system 130 may further determine a set of steps to perform system 130 may identify the task of finding parking at the a task identified by the how - to query . In some implementa

US 10,585,927 B1 11 12 tions the steps may be determined based on one or more from the given source . A larger number of outgoing links sources in the plurality of identified sources . For example , may be indicative of the comprehensiveness of the given the set of steps for a how - to query may be determined based source and the given source may be associated with a one an identified user manual responsive to the how - to confidence measure more indicative of confidence . In some query . For example , the set of steps to change a car tire and 5 implementations a confidence measure based on the number replace it with a spare tire may be determined from the car's of outgoing links may optionally be based on one or more user manual . Also , for example , the how - to query response additional factors such as a selection rate of the outgoing system 130 may determine the set of steps based on a links . For example , source A may include five outgoing links non - user manual source with a comprehensive set of instruc and two of these five outgoing links may be selected with at tions to perform the task . 10 least a threshold level of frequency . This may indicate that In some implementations a confidence measure may be information from at least two other sources accessed via the associated with one or more of the identified sources . The outgoing links may need to be combined with the informa confidence measure for a given source may be indicative of tion provided in source A. On the other hand , source B may the effectiveness of the given source in providing correct include the same five outgoing links and none of these five completion steps for the task of the how - to query . In some 15 outgoing links may be selected with at least a threshold level implementations the confidence measure for the given of frequency . This may indicate that source B is a more source may be based on the timeliness of the given source . comprehensive source of information than source A since For example , a database may include timestamp data indi users of source B do not select the outgoing links for cating the last time the given source was updated and a additional information with as much frequency as the users recently updated source may be associated with a confidence 20 of source A. In some implementations source B may be measure more indicative of confidence than a source that has associated with a confidence measure more indicative of not been recently updated . In some implementations the confidence and source A may be associated with a confi confidence measure for the given source may be based on dence measure less indicative of confidence . In some imple the length of the passage of time since the last time the given mentations a selection may be identified by collating respec source was modified . For example , a longer passage of time 25 tive href attributes of outgoing links . As referred to herein , may be associated with a confidence measure less indicative a " selection ” of the search result or the resource may of confidence than a shorter passage of time . In some include , for example a mouse - click , a click - through , a implementations a confidence measure based on the passage voice - based selection , a selection by a user's finger on a of time may optionally weight the passage of time based on presence - sensitive input mechanism ( e.g. , a touch - screen one or more factors such as a task type associated with the 30 device ) , and / or any other appropriate selection mechanism . task for which the confidence measure of the source is being As another example , the number of outgoing links from determined . For example , for a state - of - the art task , sources the given source may additionally be based on the number providing information related to the state - of - the art task may of outgoing links that were available ( e.g. , the number of need to be updated more frequently than sources providing broken links from the given source divided by the total information related to other task types . Accordingly , the 35 number of links from the given source ) . For example , 20 % weighting for the passage of time in determining a confi of the outgoing links from source A may be available . The dence measure for the source for the state - of the art task may remaining 80 % of the outgoing links from source A may be be greater than the weighting for other task types . For broken . This may indicate that the information provided in example , a source that provides instructions to create appli source A has not been updated . On the other hand , 65 % of cations based on a computing operating system may need to 40 the outgoing links from source B may be available . The be updated frequently based on the revisions to the operating remaining 35 % of the outgoing links from source B may be system . In such an instance , a longer passage of time since broken . This may indicate that the information provided in the last update may be correlated to a confidence measure source B is more updated than the information provided in less indicative of confidence . On the other hand , a source source A. Accordingly , source B may be associated with a providing instructions to change a car's tire may not need to 45 confidence measure more indicative of confidence and be updated as frequently and a passage of time since the last source A may be associated with a confidence measure less update may have minimal effect on the confidence measure indicative of confidence . associated with the source . However , if the tire change task In some implementations the confidence measure for the relates to a newly released model of the car , a longer passage given source may be based on an analysis of the cohesive of time since the last update and / or a lack of a recent update 50 ness of the given source . Cohesiveness may be determined may be correlated to a confidence measure less indicative of based on one or more techniques . For example , elements in confidence . the given source may be classified based on their mutual In some implementations the confidence measure for the similarities and dissimilarities and a distance measure may given source may be based on the number of documents that be determined between the one or more competing classi link to the given source . In some implementations the 55 fications . A small distance between the classifications may confidence measure for the given source may be based on be more indicative of the source's cohesiveness , and the the percentage of documents that link to the given source in given source may accordingly be associated with a confi a given corpus of documents . A larger number and / or dence measure more indicative of confidence . A large dis percentage of documents linking to the given source may be tance between the classifications may be indicative of the more indicative of popularity and / or the authoritative value 60 given source's lack of cohesiveness , and the given source of the given source and the given source may be associated may accordingly be associated with a confidence measure with a confidence measure more indicative of confidence . In less indicative of confidence . some implementations a confidence measure may only be In some implementations the confidence measure for a associated with a given source if a threshold number and / or given source may be based on how closely the given source percentage of documents link to the given source . 65 relates to the task identified by the how - to query . In some In some implementations the confidence measure for the implementations such a determination may be based on given source may be based on the number of outgoing links anchor - text evidence . For example , links between web docu

US 10,585,927 B1 13 14 ments may be marked with textual snippets encoded within is the author and / or publisher a recognized authority for such anchor tags . The anchor tag on a first document may link to a technical task ) . In some implementations the how - to query a second document . For example , the format of an HTML response system 130 may identify the author of the given link that links to a source providing instructions on how to source and one or more attributes of the author to determine change a tire may be < a href = " https : // how - to // change - a- 5 the confidence measure of the given source ( e.g. , if the tire.com " > Link Text </a> ) and an anchor - text may be asso how - to query relates to a technical task , does the author have ciated with this link . For example , the anchor - text may state the appropriate technical qualifications and / or experience to “ Learn more about how to change your car's tires ” . In such provide authoritative information related to the how - to an instance , the format of the HTML link may be , for query ) . example , href = " https : // how - to // change - a- 10 One or more techniques discussed herein to determine the tire.com " > Learn more about how to change your car's confidence measure of a given source may be optionally tires . </a> . The similarities between the textual snippet in an combined . For example , a linear combination of the one or anchor - text for a given source and the task identified by the more confidence measures discussed herein may be utilized how - to query may be utilized as a measure of confidence of to associate a confidence measure with the given source . In the given source for the how - to query . For example , the 15 some implementations a weighted average of the one or textual snippet “ Learn more about how to change your car's more confidence measures discussed herein may be utilized tires ” may be determined to have a high degree of similarity to associate a confidence measure with the given source . with the how - to query “ how can one change the car's tire ? ” . Weighting may be based on , for example , one or more of the In some implementations the textual snippets from all the task identified by the how - to query , the source , and the documents linking to the given source may be analyzed in 20 corpus of documents . determining a confidence measure of the given source for a Additional and / or alternative techniques may be utilized how - to query . A higher degree of similarity between the to determine the confidence measure of a given source . In textual snippet in an anchor - text for a given source and the some implementations the how - to query response system how - to query may result in a confidence measure more 130 may include the scoring system 135 that determines the indicative of confidence than a lesser degree of similarity 25 confidence measure for a given source . In some implemen would . tations a given source may be associated with a confidence In some implementations the confidence measure for the measure and this information may be stored in a database given source may be based on the frequency of visits to the such as content database 120. In some implementations the given source . Information that indicates the frequency of confidence measure may be utilized to determine a ranking visits to the given source may be stored in content database 30 of the identified sources related to a how - to query . 120. In some implementations the frequency of visits to the In some implementations the how - to query response given source may be visits to the given source after sub system 130 may utilize the one or more identified sources to mitting the one or more how - to queries for which the determine a set of steps to perform the task identified by the confidence measure of the source is being determined . A how - to query . For example , the how - to query response source with a higher frequency of visits may be indicative of 35 system 130 may identify a manual and extract from the a source that is popular among users and may be associated manual the one or more steps pertinent to performing the with a confidence measure more indicative of confidence . task . In some implementations the how - to query response In some implementations the confidence measure of the system 130 may utilize the confidence measures associated given source may be based on an analysis of the informa with each of one or more sources to rank the one or more tion - to - noise ratio of the given source . For example , the 40 sources and select the source with the highest confidence how - to query response system 130 may determine how measure as a source for the set of steps to perform the task . much of the text in the given source was noise ( e.g. , HTML In some implementations the how - to query response system tags , white space , unrelated links , sponsored advertisement ) 130 may utilize the confidence measures to rank the one or as compared to useful content . Also , for example , the how - to more sources , identify one or more higher ranked sources , query response system 130 may determine how much of the 45 and extract one or more steps from the higher ranked text in the given source is not related to the task identified sources . For example , the how - to query response system 130 by the how - to query as compared to how much of the text may identify and rank sources A , B , C , and D in that order in the given source is related to the task identified by the based on their confidence measures . The how - to query response system 130 may identify sources A and B as the In some implementations one or more existing rankings 50 most relevant sources based on the ranking . Source A may and / or one or more user reviews associated with a given include steps { A1 , A2 , ... , A5 } and source B may include source may be utilized in determining the confidence mea steps { B1 , B2 , B6 } . The how - to query response system sure of the given source . 130 may select steps A1 through A5 from source A , followed In some implementations the confidence measure of the by step B6 from source B. Accordingly , the determined set given source may be based on the number of steps provided 55 of steps may be { A1 , A2 , A3 , A4 , A5 , B6 } . B6 may for completing the task of the how - to query . In some optionally be identified as an optional step . In some imple implementations a larger number of steps may be more mentations the how - to query response system 130 may not indicative of the comprehensiveness of the set of instruc select steps from sources C and D based on confidence tions . Accordingly , a given source providing larger number measures associated with those sources that are less indica of steps to perform a task may be associated with a confi- 60 tive of confidence . In some implementations , sources C and dence measure more indicative of confidence . D may be identified as unreliable sources based on confi In some implementations the confidence measure of the dence measures that fail to satisfy a threshold value . given source may be based on the author and / or publisher In some implementations a given source may not provide associated with the given source . For example , in some the information needed to perform a task in the form of a set implementations the how - to query response system 130 may 65 of steps . Instead the information may be provided in the identify an author and / or publisher related to the given form of one or more paragraphs and / or other text segments . source ( e.g. , if the how - to query relates to a technical task , In such instances , the how - to query response system 130 
 how - to query .

form a step . 
 30 
 US 10,585,927 B1 15 16 may determine the steps based on the content of the para Accordingly , the how - to query response system 130 may graphs and / or other text segments . For example , in some link each of the terms " remove ” , “ scraped off ” , and “ peeled implementations a given sentence in a paragraph may be off ” to each of the terms “ large tar stains ” , “ stained portion ” , parsed into more than one step . Also , for example , two or “ large stains ” in the parse tree . In some implementations the more sentences in a paragraph may be merged together to 5 how - to query response system 130 may include a processor for a context - free grammar and / or an attribute grammar that For example , consider the paragraph : “ For large tar stains , may structure sentences based on the parse tree . Based at it may be best to first apply a bag of ice cubes to the stained least in part on the syntactic relationships between the nodes portion of the clothing . Freezing the tar allows you to remove the large stains . Next , when the tar is hardened , it 10 determine the set of steps to be { “ first apply ice cubes to in the parse tree , the how - to query response system 130 may may be scraped off with a knife or peeled off in sections . ” In freeze and harden a large tar stain ” , “ next scrape off the some implementations the how - to query response system hardened tar stain " } . 130 may break the paragraph down into the three constituent sentences and determine a set of steps based on the sen In some implementations the how - to query response tences . For example , the how - to query response system 130 15 system 130 may arrange the steps in the identified set of may determine that the first sentence “ For large tar stains , it steps in a particular order . In some implementations the may be best to first apply a bag of ice cubes to the stained order of the steps in the set of steps may be based on an portion of the clothing ” provides the step : “ Apply a bag of existing arrangement of steps in one or more sources . In ice cubes to the stained portion of the clothing ” . The how - to some implementations the arrangement may be determined query response system 130 may determine that the second 20 based on the order of appearance of the steps in text sentence is not an action statement based on an analysis of segments , and / or the order of appearance of the text seg the words , their respective parts of speech , and / or their ments in a document . Additionally and / or alternatively the syntactic structure . It may be additionally determined that arrangement of the steps in the set of steps may be deter the third sentence “ Next , when the tar is hardened , it may be mined based on transition terms such as “ first ” , “ next ” , scraped off with a knife or peeled off in sections ” provides 25 “ followed by ” and “ lastly ” . In the example above , “ first ” the step : “ Scrape off the hardened tar ” . Accordingly , the may be associated with the step “ Apply ice cubes to freeze how - to query response system 130 may segment the given and harden a large tar stain ” and “ next ” may be associated paragraph and extract the following set of two steps from the with the step “ Scrape off the hardened tar stain ” . Based at paragraph : { " Apply a bag of ice cubes to the stained portion least in part on such an analysis , the how - to query response of the clothing ” , “ Scrape off the hardened tar ” } . system 130 may arrange the steps in the set of steps as the One or more natural language processing techniques may be optionally utilized to segment a paragraph or other text step “ Apply ice cubes to freeze and harden a large tar stain ” followed by the step “ Scrape off the hardened tar stain ” . segment into steps that perform at least a portion of the task . For example , key terms and / or key phrases may be identified Referring to FIG . 3 , an example illustrates the identifica along with their parts of speech . A parse tree may be 35 tion of one or more steps to perform a task from a plurality determined that links key terms and / or phrases in one or of sources . In some implementations the how - to query more sentences based on their syntactic and / or semantic response system 130 may identify one or more steps to relationships . In some implementations a context - free gram perform a task from a plurality of sources and identify one mar may be utilized to structure a sentence from the parse or more groups of steps from the plurality of sources . For tree . Transitional terms such as “ first ” , “ next ” , “ followed 40 example , source A may include three steps { A1 , A2 , A3 } , by ” , “ after ” , “ at the outset ” , “ finally ” , etc. may be optionally source B may include four steps { B1 , B2 , B3 , B4 } and utilized to segment a paragraph and / or a sentence . source C may include three steps { C1 , C2 , C3 } . The how - to For example , consider the paragraph discussed earlier : query response system 130 may identify one or more groups “ For large tar stains , it may be best to first apply a bag of ice of steps from these sources . For example , a first group of cubes to the stained portion of the clothing . Freezing the tar 45 steps may be identified as { A1 , B1 , B2 , C1 } , a second group allows you to remove the large stains . Next , when the tar is of steps may be identified as { A2 , B3 , C2 ) , and a third group hardened , it may be scraped off with a knife or peeled off in of steps may be identified as { A3 , B4 , C3 } . In some sections . ” The key terms and / or key phrases may be iden implementations each identified group of steps may be tified , for example , as “ large tar stains ” , “ first ” , “ apply ” , “ ice representative of a common action needed to perform the cubes ” , “ stained portion ” , “ freezing " , " remove ” , “ large 50 task . For example , the first group of steps { A1 , B1 , B2 , C1 } stains ” , “ next ” , “ tar is hardened ” , “ scraped off ” , and “ peeled may be representative of the action “ apply ice cubes ” . In off ” . some implementations the how - to query response system A parse tree may be determined with the identified key 130 may select one or more representative steps from each terms and / or key phrases as the nodes of the parse tree . group of steps to determine the set of steps . For example , the Based on semantic relationships , “ large tar stains ” , “ stained 55 how - to query response system 130 may select B2 from the portion ” , “ large stains ” may be linked together in the parse first group of steps , A2 and B3 from the second group of sets tree . Likewise , “ remove ” , “ scraped off ” , and “ peeled off ” and C3 from the third group of sets to determine the set of may be linked together in the parse tree based on their steps as : { B2 , A2 , B3 , C3 } . Details on how such determi semantic relationships . Again , for example , “ first ” and nations may be made are provided herein . “ next ” may be linked together as transitional terms in the 60 The one or more steps to perform the task may be grouped parse tree . As another example , “ ice cubes ” , “ freezing ” , and into one or more groups based on one or more factors . In " tar is hardened ” may be linked together in the parse tree some implementations the scoring system 135 may deter based on their respective causal relationships . Additionally mine similarity measures between two or more identified and / or alternatively , the terms “ remove ” , “ scraped off ” , and steps in determining if they are representative of a common " peeled off " may be identified as terms describing an action 65 action . For example , a pair of steps in a single source and / or whereas the terms “ large tar stains ” , “ stained portion ” , one from each of two sources ) may be grouped together if “ large stains ” may be identified as nouns with an adjective . the similarity measure for the pair is indicative of a high

US 10,585,927 B1 17 18 degree of similarity ; whereas a pair of steps may be grouped of similarity of their respective parse trees . For example , the separately if the similarity measure for the pair is indicative respective nodes of a pair of parse trees may be compared of a low degree of similarity . based on semantic and / or contextual similarities . In some In some implementations the similarity measure for a implementations two parse trees with similar nodes and / or given pair of identified steps may be based on one or more 5 similar underlying semantic structures may be determined to matching techniques to match the given pair of steps . For be structurally similar . Accordingly , the pair of steps corre example , a database such as content database 120 may sponding to the pair of parse trees may be associated with a include distributionally similar key terms and / or phrases and similarity measure indicative of a higher degree of similar their corresponding distributional similarity scores . Key ity . In some implementations the scoring system 135 may terms and / or phrases that typically occur in similar contexts 10 assign scores to the nodes and / or links in a given parse tree may , for example , be considered to have similar meanings . and determine a similarity score for the given parse tree For example , a first term from a first step from a first source based on linear combinations and / or weighted averages of that co - occurs with the same key terms as that of a second the scores for the nodes and / or links . The similarity measure term from a first step from a second source over a collection for the pair of parse trees may be based on a comparison of of documents ( e.g. , HTML documents and / or PDF docu- 15 the respective similarity scores . In some implementations ments ) may be considered to be distributionally similar to two parse trees with similarity scores within a certain the second term . The distributional similarity of the given threshold may be assigned a similarity measure of one . pair of steps may be determined based on the distributional Accordingly , the associated steps may also be assigned a similarity scores of their respective key terms and / or similarity measure of one . Likewise , two parse trees with phrases . For example , a larger number of distributionally 20 similarity scores outside a certain threshold may be assigned similar terms in the given pair of steps may be indicative of a similarity measure of zero and the associated steps may a greater similarity between the steps in the given pair . also be assigned a similarity measure of zero . A pair of steps Accordingly , a similarity measure more indicative of simi with a similarity measure of one may be grouped together , larity may be associated with the given pair of steps . As whereas a pair of steps with a similarity measure of zero may another example , a larger distributional similarity score 25 be grouped separately . between the terms in the given pair of steps may be In some implementations the how - to query response indicative of a greater similarity between the steps in the system 130 may select one or more steps from each group given pair . Accordingly , a similarity measure more indica of steps to determine the set of steps to perform the task . The tive of similarity may be associated with the given pair of one or more steps may be selected based on a variety of steps . Additional and / or alternative matching techniques 30 factors . In some implementations the steps in each group may be utilized . For example , the similarity between the key may be ranked and the how - to query response system 130 terms and / or phrases may be calculated by computing the may select one or more steps from each group of steps based semantic distance , or length of path along edges between the on the ranking . For example , source A may include three key terms and / or phrases in a lexical database . In some steps { A1 , A2 , A3 } , source B may include four steps { B1 , implementations matching techniques may utilize exact 35 B2 , B3 , B4 } and source C may include three steps { C1 , C2 , matching and / or soft matching of the key terms and / or C3 } . The how - to query response system 130 may identify phrases . one or more groups of steps from these sources . For In some implementations the similarity measure for a example , three groups of steps may be identified and the given pair of steps may be based on an edit distance between steps within each group may be ranked as { A1 , B1 , B2 , C1 } , the given pair of steps . The edit distance may be indicative 40 { B3 , A2 , C2 } , and { C3 , A3 , B4 } . The how - to query of the difference between the respective key terms and / or response system 130 may select the highest ranked step in key phrases in the pair of steps . In some implementations the each group to determine the set of steps . For example , the set edit distance may count the number of characters in which of steps may be determined as : { A1 , B3 , C3 } . two key terms may differ from each other . For example , the In some implementations the how - to query response edit distance between “ stain ” and “ stains " may be deter- 45 system 130 may select more than one step from one or more mined to be one , whereas the edit distance between " stain ” of the groups to determine the set of steps . For example , for and “ stained ” may be determined to be two . In some the task related to removing tar from clothing , the first group implementations the edit distance between a word and its of steps may include a step Al that may correspond to augmentations may be set to be zero . For example , “ stain ” , “ freeze tar and scrape it off ” , a step C1 that may correspond “ stains ” , “ stained ” , “ staining ” , etc. may be determined to 50 to “ harden tar with ice and scrape it away ” , a step B1 that share “ stain ” as a common root and any pair of words may correspond to " harden tar with ice ” and a step B2 that formed from these four words may be determined to have an may correspond to " scrape off the hardened tar ” . In such an edit distance of zero . In some implementations one or more instance , the how - to query response system 130 may deter terms of the given pair of steps may be canonicalized prior mine that the first group of steps includes two distinct steps to determining an edit distance between the given pair of 55 represented by B1 and B2 , and may include these two steps steps . from the first group of steps and include one step each from In some implementations the similarity measure for a the second and third groups of steps in the determined set of given pair of steps may be based on the contextual usage of steps . For example , the set of steps may be determined as : the respective key terms and / or key phrases in the pair of { B1 , B2 , A2 , C3 } . steps , including , for example , measures based on identifying 60 In some implementations the how - to query response a semantic similarity score , a context - based matching score , system 130 may not select any steps from one or more and / or statistical term frequencies . groups to determine the set of steps . For example , the second Additional and / or alternative techniques may be used to group of steps in the previous example may be representa determine the similarity measure between the given pair of tive of “ The clothing material may be made of fabric , steps . For example , each identified step may be associated 65 leather , and blended wool . ” In such an instance , the how - to with a parse tree ( e.g. , as described herein ) and a similarity query response system 130 may determine that the second measure for a pair of steps may be based on a determination group of sets does not represent a task and may not include

US 10,585,927 B1 19 20 any members of that group in the determined set of steps . Additionally and / or alternatively , the relevance score for For example , the set of steps may be determined as { B1 , B2 , a given step may be based on the confidence measure for the C3 } , where no step is selected from the second group of one or more sources in which the step may be identified . For steps . example , a step that is extracted from a source with a In some implementations a group may be formed by 5 confidence measure indicative of high confidence may be aggregating similar information from the plurality of associated with a relevance score more indicative of rel sources . The aggregated information may include steps , evance than a step that is extracted from a source with a paragraphs , and / or other text segments . One or more steps confidence measure not indicative of high confidence . For may be determined from such aggregated information based example , one or more steps that may be extracted from a on semantic and / or syntactic analysis of the aggregated 10 highly regarded technical manual may be associated with a information utilizing techniques described herein . For relevance score more indicative of relevance . Additional example , one or more natural language processing tech and / or alternative methods of determining the relevance niques may be utilized to segment the aggregated informa score may be utilized . tion into steps that perform at least a portion of the task . As In some implementations relevance scores may addition another example , a parse tree may be determined for the 15 ally and / or alternatively be determined for a group of steps . aggregated information and one or more steps may be In some implementations the relevance score for a given identified . In some implementations the how - to query group of steps may be based on the relevance score of each response system 130 may include a context - free grammar step within the groups of steps . For example , the relevance processor and / or an attribute grammar processor that may score for a group of steps { A1 , B1 , C1 } may be based on an structure sentences based on the parse tree . 20 average of the relevance score for step A1 , the relevance In some implementations the ordering of the set of steps score for step B1 , and the relevance score for step C1 . In to perform the task may be determined based on the ordering some implementations the relevance score for a group of of corresponding steps in one or more sources . For example , steps may be based on how many sources identify step the steps in a first group of steps may precede the steps in a corresponding to the group of steps as required to perform second group of steps in one or more sources from which the 25 the task . In some implementations , the groups of steps may steps are derived and be ordered accordingly . For example , be ranked based on their respective relevance scores . For step Al may be selected to include in the set of steps from example , the groups of steps may be ranked in order of the group of steps { A1 , B1 , C1 } . Step Al may be identified relevance from the most relevant to the least relevant based as the first step in the set of steps based on A1 being the first at least in part on their relevance scores . step in source A and / or steps B1 and / or C1 being the first 30 As discussed herein , in some implementations the deter steps in respective of sources B and C. In some implemen mined set of steps may not include a step based on one or tations one or more groups of steps may be optionally ranked more of the groups of steps . For example , one or more and the how - to query response system 130 may order the set sources may indicate that steps corresponding to groups A , of steps additionally and / or alternatively based on such B , C , and D may be required to perform the task , whereas ranking . For example , the set of steps may be ordered based 35 one or more other sources may indicate that steps corre on respective relevance scores for groups of steps from sponding to groups B , C , D , and E may be required to which the set of steps is derived , as discussed herein . perform the task . In some implementations the determined In some implementations the scoring system 135 may set of steps may include steps based on groups A - D , but omit determine a relevance score for each of one or more steps a step based on group E. In some implementations the within each group of steps and may rank the steps in the 40 determined set of steps may indicate steps A - D are necessary group of steps based on the relevance scores . The ranking of and may identify step E as an optional step . the steps may be utilized in selecting a step from the group In some implementations whether a step in the determined of steps , formulating a step based on the group of steps , set of steps includes a step based on a group of steps may be and / or determining an order of the selected step based on the based on how many sources identify a step corresponding to group in the determined set of steps . In some implementa- 45 the group of steps as required to perform the task . In some tions the relevance score for a step may be indicative of implementations the sources may correspond to the sources confidence that the step is an appropriate step for completing represented in all groups of steps related to a given task . In the task identified by the how - to query . The relevance score some implementations the sources may include additional for a step may be determined based on one or more methods and / or alternative sources . In some implementations at least utilized to determine the confidence measures of a source of 50 a threshold of sources must identify a step corresponding to the step as described herein . For example , key terms and / or the group of steps as required to perform the task . For key phrases appearing in a step may be matched to key terms example , it may be determined that the threshold is 75 % , and / or key phrases that may be associated with the task that is if at least 75 % of the plurality of sources identify a identified by the how - to query . A step that more closely given step corresponding to the group of steps , then a step matches the task identified by the how - to query may be 55 based on the group of steps will be included in the set of associated with a relevance score more indicative of rel steps . In some implementations if less than the threshold of evance to the task . For example , a step from a first source the plurality of sources identify a given step corresponding may be " scrape the hardened tar off the shirt ” and it may be to the group of steps , but more than a second threshold in an identified group with a step from a second source that identify the given step , then the given step may be deter may be “ scrape the hardened tar off the fabric ” . The step of 60 mined to be an optional step in performing the task . For " scrape the hardened tar off the shirt ” may have a higher example , if the first threshold is 75 % and the second relevance score to the how - to query of “ how to remove tar threshold is 50 % , it may be determined that 81 % of the from a shirt ” than would the step of “ scrape the hardened tar plurality of sources identify a step corresponding to a group off the fabric ” . Matching may be based on soft matching , of steps B as required to perform the task . Likewise , a step exact matching , determining semantic distance , and / or 65 corresponding to a group of steps C may be identified by determining distributional similarities between the respec 85 % of the sources , a step corresponding to a group of steps tive key terms and / or key phrases . D by 77 % of the sources , and a step corresponding to a

US 10,585,927 B1 21 22 group of steps A by 69 % of the sources , and a step corre the set of steps is extracted from the technical manual and / or sponding to a group of steps E by 15 % of the sources . confirmed by the technical manual a relevance score indica Having met the threshold of 75 % , a step based on group of tive of high confidence may be determined . Also , for steps B ( 81 % ) , a step based on group of steps C ( 85 % ) , and example , for a how - to query related to changing a car tire , a step based on group of steps D ( with 77 % ) may be 5 a relevance score indicative of medium or low confidence identified as steps that are required to perform the task . may be determined for a set of steps that are based only on Having not satisfied the threshold of 75 % , but having one or more low quality sources . satisfied the second threshold of 50 % , a step based on group In some implementations the relevance score for the of steps A ( 69 % ) may be identified as an optional step . A step determined set of steps may be based on a number of sources based on group of steps E ( 15 % ) may be identified as a step 10 that agree on the set of steps for performing the task . For that is not required to perform the task since it fails to satisfy example , the scoring system 135 may determine a relevance either threshold and may be omitted from the determined set score less indicative of confidence for a set of steps if of steps . Accordingly , the determined set of steps may be B , multiple sources indicate that one or more of the determined C , D , and optionally A. set of steps are optional . Also , for example , the scoring In some implementations the relevance score for a step 15 system 135 may determine a relevance score less indicative and / or group of steps may be based on a confidence rating of confidence for a set of steps if certain steps were omitted such as “ high confidence ” , “ medium confidence ” , and “ low from the determined set of steps because less than a thresh confidence ” . For example , if an overwhelming majority of old level of sources failed to indicate those steps as neces sources indicate that a given step corresponding to a group sary , but multiple sources still indicated that one or more of of steps is required to perform the task , then the given step 20 the determined set of steps were desired . Also , for example , may be associated with a confidence rating of “ high confi the scoring system 135 may determine a relevance score less dence ” indicating a high level of confidence that the given indicative of confidence for a set of steps if the collection of step is required to perform the task . On the other hand , if identified sources identify multiple ways to perform the task . only 70 % of the sources indicate the given step is required , In some implementations the scoring system 135 may deter then the given step may be associated with a confidence 25 mine a relevance score less indicative of confidence if there rating of “ medium confidence ” . As another example , if only are multiple ways to perform the task . Additional and / or 50 % of the sources indicate the given step is required , then alternative techniques may be utilized to determine rel the given step may be associated with a confidence rating of evance scores . In some implementations any determined " low confidence ” . relevance scores may be stored in a database such as content In some implementations the relevance score for a group 30 database 120 . of steps may be based on the confidence measures of the one In some implementations a threshold for the relevance or more sources from which the step may be identified . For score may be determined and only sets of steps that are example , a linear combination and / or weighted average of associated with a relevance score satisfying that threshold the confidence measures of all sources contributing to the for the relevance score may be provided in response to a group of steps may be utilized . 35 how - to query . In some implementation if the relevance score In some implementations relevance scores may addition associated with a set of steps does not satisfy the threshold ally and / or alternatively be determined for the determined for the relevance score , then the how - to query response set of steps . In some implementations the relevance score for system 130 may not provide the determined set of steps in the determined set of steps may be based on the relevance response to a how - to query . In some implementation if the scores for the groups of steps on which one or more of the 40 relevance score associated with a set of steps does not satisfy determined set of steps are based and / or the relevance scores the threshold for the relevance score , then the how - to query for any individual steps on which one or more of the response system 130 may determine a new set of steps to be determined set of steps are based . For example , a linear associated with the how - to query . In some implementations combination and / or a weighted average of the relevance a set of steps associated with a relevance score lower than scores for the individual steps included in the determined set 45 the threshold value for the relevance score may not be stored of steps may be utilized to determine the relevance score for in the content database 120 . the determined set of steps . For example , if a set of steps is In some implementations the how - to query response determined as { A1 , B2 } the relevance score for the set of system 130 may identify one or more attributes for the set of steps may be based on the relevance score for step A1 and steps and associate such attributes with the set of steps . the relevance score for step B2 . Also , for example , a linear 50 Attributes may include , for example , one or more of a title combination and / or a weighted average of the relevance for the set of steps ( e.g. , “ How to change a car tire ” ) , a skill scores for the groups of steps on which the determined set level ( e.g. , a person of driving age ) , an estimated time of steps are based may be utilized to determine the relevance required ( e.g. , twenty - five minutes ) , tools required ( e.g. , a score for the determined set of steps . For example , if a set jack and a wrench ) , materials required to perform the task , of steps is determined as { A1 , B2 } from two groups of steps 55 one or more sources ( e.g. , user manual ) associated with the { A1 , B1 } and { A2 , B2 } , the relevance score for the set of determined set of steps , and / or one or more cautionary steps may be based on the relevance score for group of steps statements ( e.g. , park car on a level surface , place stoppers { A1 , B1 } and the relevance score for groups of steps { A2 , behind tires to prevent rolling , apply hand brake ) . The B2 } sources may include sources on which the set of steps is In some implementations the relevance score for the 60 based and / or which are identified as conforming to one or determined set of steps may be based on the confidence more of the steps . measures for the sources that contribute to the steps included For example , the title associated with a task may be in the determined set of steps . For example , for a how - to identified in one or more ways such as identifying the title query related to changing a car tire , a relevance score from a manual , from the how - to query , from anchor - text , indicative of high confidence may be determined for a set of 65 and / or from search result documents responsive to the steps that are based on a technical manual published by the how - to query . In some implementations the title may be car manufacturer and / or a tire manufacturer . For example , if identified based on a term frequency of words and / or phrases

US 10,585,927 B1 23 24 that appear in the plurality of sources responsive to the optionally be utilized in determining one or more attributes how - to query . In some implementations the term frequency ( e.g. , to filter out outlier data ) . determination may be based on term frequency - inverse In some implementations the identified how - to query , the document frequency ( " TFIDF ” ) weighting of a word and / or corresponding determined set of steps , and their association phrase . For example , words like “ tar ” and “ remove ” may be 5 may be stored in content database 120. Additionally and / or relatively rare in a corpus of documents and the frequency alternatively , one or more attributes associated with the set of the terms “ tar ” and “ remove ” appearing in a given of steps may be stored in content database 120 and associ document may be higher than their respective frequencies in ated with the set of steps and / or the how - to query . As a corpus of documents . Accordingly , a greater weight may discussed herein , in some implementations additional how be associated with the terms " tar " and " remove ” based on 10 to queries may be associated with the set of steps and / or the attributes based on determined similarity between the addi TFIDF . A term with low frequency in a corpus of documents tional how - to queries and the identified how - to query . In but a very high frequency in a given subset of documents , some implementations the set of steps may be provided in such as sources from which a set of steps may be deter response to a how - to query . For example , users may issue a mined , may be associated with a TFIDF weight indicating its 15 how - to query to the search system 140 via one or more client relative importance in the given subset of the corpus of devices 110. The search system 140 may receive how - to documents . Accordingly , “ tar ” and “ remove ” may be iden queries from one or more client devices 110 and may tified as terms that are highly relevant in the given subset of execute the how - to queries against a content database 120 of the corpus of documents . In some implementations the title stored steps and / or associated attributes . The search system may be based on the how - to query itself . For example , if the 20 140 may identify the determined set of steps associated with how - to query states “ how do I remove tar from clothing ” , the issued how - to query , and may respond by generating the how - to query response system 130 may identify the title search results that are provided to the one or more client as “ Removing tar from clothing ” . In some implementations devices 110 in a form that can be presented to the users . In one or more inquiry terms of a how - tow query ( e.g. , " how some implementations how - to queries may be formulated by to ” ) may be combined with one or more task term ( e.g. , “ tar ” 25 a user via textual input . In some implementations how - to and “ remove ” ) to determine a title ( e.g. , “ How to remove queries may additionally and / or alternatively be formulated tar ” ) . In some implementations the title may be based on an based on spoken commands and / or image and / or video anchor text of one or more sources from which the set of analysis . For example , a client device 110 of a user may steps is determined . For example , the anchor - text associated receive speech input from a user and submit a query to with a primary source from which the set of steps is 30 search system 140 based on such speech input . Also , for determined may state “ Learn more about how to change example , a client device 110 of a user may capture image your car's tires ” , and the how - to query response system 130 and / or video and submit a query to search system 140 based may identify the title as “ Changing car tires ” . on such image and / or video . For example , a client device In some implementations the one or more attributes for 110 of a user may be utilized to capture an image of a flat the set of steps may be identified in a manner similar to 35 tire and the image of the tire may be provided to search determining the set of steps as discussed herein . Addition system 140. Based on such an image , the search system may ally and / or alternatively , image processing techniques may determine the user is looking for steps related to changing a be utilized to analyze one or more of the plurality of sources flat tire . to identify objects , entities , text embedded in images , etc. to In some implementations the scoring system 135 may identify one or more attributes . For example , with reference 40 determine a quality measure for a determined set of steps . to the task of changing a car's tire , one or more sources may The quality measure is indicative of quality of the deter include images of a wrench and a jack , and these may be mined set of steps provided in response to a how - to query identified as tools required to perform the task . As another based on user feedback . The quality measure may be used to example , one or more sources may identify a wrench and a refine the relevance score of the determined set of steps . For jack as tools required to perform the task . In some imple- 45 example , the determined quality measure of a given set of mentations information related to attributes may be steps responsive to a given how - to query may be indicative extracted from the one or more sources based on identifi of negative feedback and utilized to demote the relevance cation of terms and / or phrases based on TFIDF and / or other score associated with the given set of steps for the given techniques . how - to query . In some implementations the quality measure In some implementations relevance scores may be asso- 50 may demote a relevance score to a degree wherein the ciated with one or more identified attributes . For example , if relevance score does not satisfy a threshold required to 90 % of the sources mention a jack and a wrench in a listing continue to provide the given set of steps in response to the of tools , then a relevance score indicative of high relevance , given how - to query . and / or a confidence rating of “ high confidence ” may be In some implementations the quality measure may be associated with a jack and wrench . On the other hand , if 50 % 55 based on a number of users viewing the determined set of of the sources indicate a flashlight in a listing of tools , then steps provided in response to the how - to query , a number of a relevance score not indicative of high relevance , and / or a sites linking to the determined set of steps , user reviews , confidence rating of “ medium confidence ” may be associ and / or user ratings . One or more techniques may optionally ated with a flashlight . In some implementations a flashlight be combined to determine the quality measure . In some may be included as an optional tool based on its lower 60 implementations a threshold value may be determined and relevance score . In some implementations the jack , the the quality measure of a determined set of steps provided in wrench , and the flashlight may be optionally be individually response to a how - to query may be compared to the thresh associated with relevance scores ranked relative to one old value . A set of steps associated with a how - to query may another . In some implementations a relevance score for a set be associated with a quality measure indicative of high of tools may be determined . The relevance score for the set 65 quality if the quality measure satisfies the threshold . In some of tools may be based on the individual relevance scores for implementations the difference between the quality measure the jack , the wrench , and the flashlight . Thresholding may and the threshold value may be indicative of the quality of

US 10,585,927 B1 25 26 the set of steps . For example , a larger positive difference indicative of the respective confidence measure ) . Additional may be more indicative of confidence and / or associated with search results may follow such as first search result 430 , a rating of “ high confidence ” , a smaller positive difference second search result 440 , and third search result 450 . may be less indicative of confidence and / or associated with Referring to FIG . 5 , another example graphical user a rating of “ medium confidence ” , whereas if the quality 5 interface for providing a set of steps to perform the task is measure does not satisfy the threshold , it may be associated shown . The user may input a how - to query “ How to clean tar with a quality measure indicative of low confidence and / or from clothing ” into a user - editable field such as search box associated with a rating of “ low confidence ” . If the quality 500 and issue a search by selecting a search icon 510. The measure does not satisfy the threshold for the quality mea search system 140 receives the how - to query and identifies sure , in some implementations the how - to query response 10 a determined set of steps associated with the submitted system 130 may determine a new set of steps and / or identify how - to query . In some implementations the determined set additional steps and / or attributes to be better responsive to of steps may be displayed in a highlighted form , for the how - to query . example , in display box 520. In some implementations if the Similar techniques may be utilized to determine a quality determined set of steps is associated with a quality measure measure of each individual step in the determined set of 15 and / or relevance score indicating “ low confidence ” , the steps provided in response to a how - to query . Likewise , a how - to query response system 130 may respond to the user's quality measure may be determined for the one or more query with an indication that the set of steps is associated attributes associated with the determined set of steps pro with a rating of “ low confidence . ” In some implementations vided in response to the how - to query . the set of steps may be displayed with a heading such as Referring to FIG . 4 , an example graphical user interface 20 “ Low confidence guess ” as illustrated in FIG . 5. In some for providing a set of steps to perform a task is shown . The implementations the user may be prompted prior to provid user may input a how - to query “ How to clean tar from ing display box 520 to determine if the user is interested in clothing ” into a user - editable field such as search box 400 a set of steps associated with a relevance score that is and issue a search by selecting a search icon 410. The search indicative of lower quality . The how - to query response system 140 receives the how - to query and identifies a 25 system 130 may determine whether to provide the identified determined set of steps associated with the submitted how - to set of steps based on whether the user indicates an interest query . In some implementations the determined set of steps in the lower quality set of steps . In some implementations may be displayed in a highlighted form , for example , in the how - to query response system 130 may store user display box 420. In some implementations the set of steps responses to one or more such prompts and determine the may be displayed with a heading such as “ Best Guess ” 30 quality measure of the determined set of steps based on user indicating a medium level of confidence in the determined responses . For example , if more than a threshold number of set of steps . In some implementations the set of steps may users indicate a desire to receive the set of steps associated be displayed with a heading such as “ Authoritative Steps ” with a relevance score indicating “ low confidence ” , the indicating a high level of confidence in the determined set of how - to query response system 130 may determine a quality steps . Additional and / or alternative indicators of confidence 35 measure indicative of quality and increase the relevance may accompany the set of steps . Indicators of confidence for score for that set of steps based on the quality measure . In the set of steps may be based on a relevance score associated some implementations the how - to query response system with the set of steps as described herein . 130 may respond to a how - to query by stating that “ The In some implementations indicators of confidence may determined set of steps is associated with a rating of ' low additionally and / or alternatively be associated with indi- 40 confidence ' ; however , 75 % of users are willing to receive vidual steps in the set of steps . Indicators of confidence for the set of steps ” , and then prompt the user for an indication the set of steps may be based on relevance scores associated as to their desire to receive the indicated set of steps . In some with the individual steps as described herein . For example , implementations the steps may be provided in the form of each step in the set of steps may be provided with an required steps A through D , and optional steps E and F. indicator of confidence in that step . For example , steps A , B , 45 In some implementations display box 520 may also and C may be provided with a “ high confidence ” rating include one or more attributes such as materials needed to whereas step D may be provided with a “ medium confi perform the task and tools needed to perform the task . In dence ” rating . In some implementations one some implementations one or more of steps and / or attributes optional steps may be provided . In some implementations may be hyperlinked to different parts of the same document one or more optional steps may be provided with confidence 50 ( e.g. , a source utilized in determining the steps ) and / or to measures based on relevance scores associated with the parts of different documents ( e.g. , sources utilized in deter optional steps . For example , an optional step may be anno mining the steps ) . Search results may be additionally and / or tated with the statement “ 60 % of sources suggest step E as alternatively provided such as first search result 530 , second a step " . In some implementations optional steps and / or search result 540 , and third search result 550 . alternate steps may be annotated with confidence measures 55 In some implementations a query score may be associated that are indicative of user feedback directed particularly at with a query and / or a sequence of queries submitted by a such steps . For example , steps E and F may be provided as user . The query score is indicative of confidence that a optional steps and / or alternate steps and may be annotated submitted query and / or sequence of queries indicate a desire with the statement “ 60 % of users recommended step E to receive a set of steps for completing a task indicated by whereas 20 % of users recommended step F ” . In some 60 the query . For example , a query that includes an inquiry term implementations display box 420 may also include one or and a task term has a high likelihood of being a query for more attributes such as a listing of the sources of the which it is desirable to provide a set of steps for completing information , “ From : Source A , Source B , and 3 others . ” a task related to the task term . Accordingly , a query score Hyperlinks to such sources may optionally be provided . In more indicative of confidence that the submitted query is a some implementations the one or more attributes may be 65 query for which it is desirable to provide a set of steps for provided with an indicator of confidence as described herein completing a task related to the task term of the query may ( e.g. , the sources may each be provided with an indicator be associated with such a query . As another example , a query 
 or more

US 10,585,927 B1 27 28 that includes an inquiry term and does not include a task example , if a query includes an inquiry term and a task term , term that identifies a specific task has a high likelihood of then the query score of the query may satisfy the threshold . being a how - to query , but cannot be tied to a specific task . The how - to query response system 130 may access content For example , the task term may be ambiguous and related to database 120 to identify the associated determined set of multiple tasks . Accordingly , a query score less indicative of 5 steps and provide such steps in response to the submitted confidence that the submitted query is a query for which it query . is desirable to provide a set of steps for completing a task As discussed , in some implementations the query score related to the task term may be associated with such a query . may be based on a sequence of queries . For example , a first As another example , for a query that includes an inquiry query that includes a task term but does not include an term and does not include any task term , a query score may 10 inquiry term may not be identified as a how - to query and be determined that indicates it is not desirable to provide a may be associated with a query score that does not satisfy set of steps for completing a task . As another example , for the threshold query score . However , the user may submit a a query that includes a task term but does not include an subsequent query that includes a task term that is similar to inquiry term a query score may be determined that indicates the task term of the first query ( optionally in combination it is not desirable to provide a set of step for completing a 15 with an inquiry term ) . The query score for the subsequent task . However , if the query was preceded by one or more query may take into account the first query and may satisfy queries that included the same task term , or related task the threshold query score . In some implementations the terms , then a query score may be determined that indicates subsequent query immediately follows the first query . In it is desirable to provide a set of step for completing a task . some implementations the subsequent query may be within Preceding queries that include the same task term or related 20 a threshold number of queries of the first query and / or task terms may indicate the user is likely searching for steps submitted within a threshold of time of the first query . One related to completing the task . or more additional subsequent queries may increase the In some implementations the query score may be based on confidence level of a query sequence and accordingly the one or more user - initiated actions . For example , the user increase query scores for such subsequent queries . The may download software X with a self - installation feature . 25 how - to query response system 130 may access content Such user - initiated action may have a low likelihood of database 120 to identify the associated determined set of being an indication of a desire to receive a set of steps for steps and provide that in response to a query that satisfies the installing the software X. Accordingly , a query score less threshold query score . indicative of confidence may be associated with the query The query score may be determined based on one or more " how to install software X ” . On the other hand , the user may 30 additional and / or alternative factors . For example , standing download complex software Y that may need to be installed alone , a given query that includes a task term but does not manually . Such user - initiated action may have a high like include an inquiry term may be associated with a query score lihood of being an indication of a desire to receive a of that fails to satisfy the threshold query score . Ho ever , one steps for installing the software Y. Accordingly , a query or more user activities ( e.g. , purchase history , an email , score more indicative of confidence may be associated with 35 and / or a post on a social media platform ) may indicate that the query “ how do I install software Y ” . the user is likely to seek steps related to completing the task . In some implementations a query score more indicative of The query score may be adjusted based on one or more such confidence may be associated with a query when the query user activities to be more likely to satisfy the threshold query is based on more than one user - initiated action . For example , For example , purchase history of a user may indicate electronic communications may indicate that the user may 40 that the user has recently bought some tar . When taken in be relocating to a new city . The user's browsing history may combination with a task term such as “ remove tar ” , it may indicate that the user is searching for a new school in the be inferred that the user is searching for information related city . Based at least in part on such user - initiated actions , the to tar removal . Accordingly , the query score for the given how - to query response system 130 may identify a how - to query may be adjusted to reflect a query score more indica query as “ how do I find a new school in the city ” , and the 45 tive of confidence that the user is searching for steps related scoring system 135 may associate a query score more to removing tar . indicative of confidence with such how - to query . User's As another example , a given query may include task browsing history may additionally indicate that the user is term such as “ change tire ” . Based solely on such given searching for a new home in the city . Based at least in part query , the scoring system 135 may associate a query score on such additional user - initiated action , the how - to query 50 with the given query that fails to satisfy the threshold query response system 130 may identify a how - to query as “ how score . However , user data may indicate that the user posted do I find a new home in the city ” , and the scoring system 135 a comment on a social media platform that stated " stuck in may associate a query score more indicative of confidence the middle of nowhere with a flat tire ” and / or posted an with such a how - to query . In some implementations scoring image of a flat tire . When taken in combination with the system 135 may increase the individual query scores for the 55 given query “ change tire ” , it may be inferred that the user is how - to query “ how do I find a new school in the city ” and searching for information related to changing a flat tire . the how - to query “ how do I find a new home in the city ” , Accordingly , the query score for the given query may be based on the additional browsing history related to searching adjusted to reflect a query score that is more likely to satisfy for new homes in the city . the threshold query score . In some implementations a determined set of steps may be 60 In some implementations if a query score for a given provided in response to a query based on its query score . For query fails to satisfy a threshold query score , the how - to example , a determined set of steps may be provided in query response system 130 may prompt the user to see if the response to a query if that query is associated with a query user desires steps related to completing a task identified by score that satisfies a threshold query score . The threshold the given query . For example , the given query may include query score may be indicative of sufficient confidence that 65 a task term such as " change tire ” . In some implementations the submitted query indicates a desire to receive a set of the how - to query response system 130 may prompt the user steps for completing a task indicated by the query . For to determine if the user is searching for a set of steps to 
 score .

US 10,585,927 B1 29 30 perform the task of changing a tire . If the user responds scoring system 135 may identify a threshold number and / or positively , then the set of steps may be provided . In some percentage to determine if the confidence measure , the implementations user responses to such prompts may be relevance score , the quality measure and / or the query score stored in a database such as content database 120. If the satisfy such threshold . In some implementations the thresh number of positive user responses satisfies a certain thresh- 5 old may be a fixed threshold . In some implementations the old , then the given query may be associated with a query threshold may be based on one or more of the task identified score more indicative of confidence that the given query is by the how - to query , the source , and the corpus of docu a how - to query . If the number of positive user responses fails ments . For example , statistical analysis may be performed to satisfy a certain threshold and / or the number of negative on a corpus of all documents related to a how - to query to user responses satisfies a certain threshold , then the given 10 determine a statistically significant threshold . query may be associated with a query score less indicative In situations in which the systems discussed herein collect of confidence that the given query is a how - to query . personal information about users , or may make use of In some implementations the query score for a given personal information , the users may be provided with an query and the relevance score for a determined set of steps opportunity to control whether programs or features collect ( optionally modified based on the quality measure ) related to 15 user information ( e.g. , information about a user's social the given query may be utilized in combination with one network , email , social actions or activities , browsing history , another to determine whether the determined set of steps a user's preferences , or a user's current geographic loca may be provided in response to the given query . For tion ) , or to control whether and / or how to receive content example , if both the query score for the given query and the from the content server that may be more relevant to the relevance score for the determined set of steps related to the 20 user . Also , certain data may be treated in one or more ways given query satisfy certain respective thresholds , then the before it is stored or used , so that personally identifiable determined set of steps may be provided in response to the information may be removed . For example , a user's identity given query . On the other hand , if both the query score for may be treated so that personally identifiable information the given query and the relevance score for the determined may not be determined for the user , or a user's geographic set of steps related to the given query fail to satisfy certain 25 location may be generalized where geographic location respective thresholds , then the determined set of steps may information may be obtained ( such as to a city , ZIP code , or not be provided in response to the given query . As another state level ) , so that a particular geographic location of a user example , if the query score for the given query satisfies a may not be determined . Thus , the user may have control certain first threshold and the relevance score for the deter over how information is collected about the user and / or mined set of steps related to the given query fails to satisfy 30 used . a certain second threshold , then the how - to query response The content database 120 , the how - to query response system 130 may prompt the user to determine if the user is system 130 , the scoring system 135 , and / or the search willing receive the determined set of steps that are below system 140 and / or may be implemented in hardware , firm the certain threshold . Based on the response to the prompt , ware , and / or software running on hardware . For example , the determined set of steps may or may not be provided in 35 one or more of the systems may be implemented in one or response to the given query . As another example , if the query more computer servers . score for the given query fails to satisfy a certain first Many other configurations are possible having more or threshold and the relevance score for the determined set of fewer components than the environment shown in FIG . 1 . steps related to the given query satisfies a certain second For example , in some environments the how - to query threshold , then the how - to query response system 130 may 40 response system 130 may include a scoring system 135. In prompt the user to determine if the user is searching for a set some environments the how - to query response system 130 of steps related to performing a task . Based on the response and the scoring system 135 may be separate components . to the prompt , the determined set of steps may or may not Referring to FIG . 6 , a flow chart illustrates an example be provided in response to the given query . As another method of associating the set of steps for performing a task example , if the query score for the given query fails to 45 with a how - to query and storing the set of steps to be satisfy a certain first threshold and the relevance score for provided in response to the how - to query . Other implemen the determined set of steps related to the given query tations may perform the steps in a different order , omit indicates the set of steps are of very high quality , then the certain steps , and / or perform different and / or additional how - to query response system 130 may provide the set of steps than those illustrated in FIG . 6. For convenience , steps . 50 aspects of FIG . 6 will be described with reference to a In some implementations if a relevance score associated system of one or more computers that perform the process . with steps responsive to a given query fails to satisfy a The system may include , for example , the how - to query threshold relevance score or if a given query is not associ response system 130 and / or the scoring system 135 of FIG . ated with steps , the how - to query response system 130 may 1 . prompt the user for additional information to enable formu- 55 At step 600 , a how - to query related to performing a task lation of a query that will return steps that satisfy a threshold may be identified . In some implementations the how - to relevance score . For example , a query of “ how do I find my query may be identified based on one or more techniques car oil filter ” may be associated with a set of steps that have described herein . For example , the how - to query may be a low relevance score due to various car model specific oil identified based on one or more terms of the query such as filter placements . The how - to query response system 130 60 inquiry terms and / or task terms . may prompt the user for additional information such as the At step 605 , a plurality of sources responsive to the car model , make , and / or year to enable formulation of a how - to query may be identified . In some implementations refined query that is associated with steps that satisfy a content database 120 may include identifiers ( e.g. , an threshold relevance score . address ) of sources that are responsive to identified how - to In some implementations where a number and / or percent- 65 queries . For example , the search system 140 may identify age is utilized to determine a confidence measure , a rel search result documents that are responsive to a how - to evance score , a quality measure , and / or a query score , the query . An identifier for one or more of the search result

be 
 US 10,585,927 B1 31 32 documents may then optionally be associated with the search system 140 may receive how - to queries from one or how - to query in the content database 120. The sources may more client devices 110 and may execute the how - to queries include search result documents associated with the how - to against a content database 120 of stored steps and / or asso query search results and / or other documents that are respon ciated attributes . The search system 140 may identify the sive to the how - to query . In some implementations the 5 determined set of steps and / or attributes associated with the identified sources may be associated with a confidence issued how - to query , and may respond by generating search measure and / or a confidence measure of the sources may results that are provided to the one or more client devices determined . The confidence measure may be indicative of 110 in a form that can be presented to the users . the effectiveness of the given source in providing correct Referring to FIG . 7 , a flow chart illustrates an example completion steps for the task of the how - to query . 10 method of determining the set of steps to perform a task . At step 610 , a set of steps to perform the task of the Other implementations may perform the steps in a different how - to query may be determined based on the plurality of order , omit certain steps , and / or perform different and / or sources . In some implementations the steps may be deter additional steps than those illustrated in FIG . 7. For conve mined based on one or more sources in the plurality of nience , aspects of FIG . 7 will be described with reference to sources . For example , the set of steps may be determined 15 a system of one or more computers that perform the process . from an identified user manual . Also for example , the steps The system may include , for example , the how - to query to change a car tire and replace it with a spare tire may be response system 130 of FIG . 1 . determined from the car's user manual . Also , for example , At step 700 , a plurality of sources responsive to a how - to the set of steps may be determined based a non - user manual query may be identified . In some implementations the source with a comprehensive set of instructions to perform 20 sources may include a user manual that is responsive to the the task . Also , for example , the set of steps may be deter how - to query . For example , a user manual for a car may mined based on analysis of steps from multiple sources . For include instructions on how to replace the car's tire with a example , as described herein , groups of steps may be spare tire . As another example , a user manual for a client determined with each of the groups including similar steps device 110 may include instructions to assist the user with from one or more sources . The set of steps may be deter- 25 the initial configuration of the device and / or assist the user mined based on such groups of steps . in troubleshooting common problems . In some implemen In some implementations a given source may not provide tations the sources may include additional and / or alternative the information needed to perform a task in the form of a set sources such as how - to webpages , forums , articles , etc. In of steps . Instead the information may be provided in the some implementations step 700 may share one or more form of one or more paragraphs and / or other text segments . 30 attributes in common with step 605 of FIG . 6 . In such instances , the how - to query response system 130 At step 705 , one or more groups of steps may be identified may determine the steps based on the content of the para from the plurality of sources . For example , source A may graphs and / or other text segments . For example , in some include three steps { A1 , A2 , A3 } , source B may include four implementations a given sentence in a paragraph may be steps { B1 , B2 , B3 , B4 } and source C may include three steps parsed into more than one step . Also , for example , two or 35 ( C1 , C2 , C3 } . The how - to query response system 130 may more sentences in a paragraph may be merged together to identify one or more groups of steps from these sources . For form a step . One or more natural language processing example , a first group of steps may be identified as { A1 , B1 , techniques may be optionally utilized to segment a para B2 , C1 } , a second group of steps may be identified as { A2 , graph or other text segment into steps that perform at least B3 , C2 ) , and a third group of steps may be identified as { A3 , a portion of the task . For example , key terms and / or key 40 B4 , C3 } . In some implementations each identified group of phrases may be identified along with their parts of speech . steps may be representative of a common action needed to A parse tree may be determined that links key terms and / or perform the task . For example , the first group of steps { AI , phrases in one or more sentences based on their syntactic B1 , B2 , C1 } may be representative of the action “ apply ice and / or semantic relationships . In some implementations a cubes ” . context - free grammar may be utilized to structure a sentence 45 In some implementations the scoring system 135 may from the parse tree . Transitional terms such as “ first ” , determine similarity measures between two or more identi “ next ” , “ followed by ” , “ after ” , “ at the outset ” , “ finally ” , etc. fied steps in determining if they are representative of a may be optionally utilized to segment a paragraph and / or a common action . For example , a pair of steps in a single sentence . source and / or one from each of two sources ) may be grouped At step 615 , the set of steps may be associated with the 50 together if the similarity measure for the pair is indicative of how - to query . In some implementations the identified how a high degree of similarity ; whereas a pair of steps may be to query , the corresponding determined set of steps and their grouped separately if the similarity measure for the pair is association may be stored in content database 120. In some indicative of a low degree of similarity . implementations the determined set of steps may be asso At step 710 , one or more steps may be identified from ciated with additional how - to queries that are similar to the 55 each group . The one or more steps may be selected based on identified how - to query . For example , if the identified how a variety of factors . In some implementations the steps in to query is “ how to remove tar from clothing " the deter each group may be ranked and the how - to query response mined set of steps may additionally be associated with system 130 may select one or more steps from each group queries such as “ how can I remove tar from clothing " and of steps based on the ranking . For example , source A may “ how do I remove tar from a shirt ” and / or “ how can I remove 60 include three steps { A1 , A2 , A3 } , source B may include four tar from [ X ] ” , wherein “ [ X ] ” is a variable that represents an steps { B1 , B2 , B3 , B4 } and source C may include three steps article of clothing . Additionally and / or alternatively , one or { C1 , C2 , C3 } . The how - to query response system 130 may more attributes associated with the set of steps may be stored identify one or more groups of steps from these sources . For in content database 120. In some implementations the set of example , three groups of steps may be identified and the steps may be provided in response to a how - to query . For 65 steps within each group may be ranked as { A1 , B1 , B2 , C1 } , example , users may issue a how - to query with the search { B3 , A2 , C2 } , and { C3 , A3 , B4 } . The how - to query system 140 through one or more client devices 110. The response system 130 may select the highest ranked step in

US 10,585,927 B1 33 34 each group to determine the set of steps . For example , the set systems , microphones , and / or other types of input devices . of steps may be determined as : { A1 , B3 , C3 } . In general , use of the term “ input device ” is intended to At step 715 , the set of steps to perform the task may be include all possible types of devices and ways to input determined based on the identified one or more steps . In information into computer system 810 or onto a communi some implementations the ordering of the set of steps to 5 cation network . perform the task may be determined based on the ordering User interface output devices 820 may include a display of corresponding steps in one or more sources . For example , subsystem , a printer , a fax machine , or non - visual displays the steps in a first group of steps may precede the steps in a such as audio output devices . The display subsystem may second group of steps in one or more sources from which the include a cathode ray tube ( CRT ) , a flat - panel device such as steps are derived and be ordered accordingly . For example , 10 a liquid crystal display ( LCD ) , a projection device , or some step Al may be selected to include in the set of steps from other mechanism for creating a visible image . The display the group of steps { A1 , B1 , C1 } . Step Al may be identified subsystem may also provide non - visual display such as via as the first step in the set of steps based on A1 being the first audio output devices . In general , use of the term “ output step in source A and / or steps B1 and / or C1 being the first device ” is intended to include all possible types of devices steps in respective of sources B and C. In some implemen- 15 and ways to output information from computer system 810 tations one or more groups of steps may be optionally ranked to the user or to another machine or computer system . and the how - to query response system 130 may order the set Storage subsystem 824 stores programming and data of steps additionally and / or alternatively based on such constructs that provide the functionality of some or all of the ranking . For example , the set of steps may be ordered based modules described herein . For example , the storage subsys on respective relevance scores for groups of steps from 20 tem 824 may include the logic to determine the set of steps which the set of steps is derived , as discussed herein . that may be associated with a how - to query . As another In some implementations the scoring system 135 may example , the storage subsystem 824 may include the logic to determine a relevance score for each of one or more steps associate a how - to query with a determined set of steps . within each group of steps and may rank the steps in the These software modules are generally executed by pro group of steps based on the relevance scores . The ranking of 25 cessor 814 alone or in combination with other processors . the steps may be utilized in selecting a step from the group Memory 826 used in the storage subsystem can include a of steps , formulating a step based on the group of steps , number of memories including a main random access and / or determining an order of the selected step based on the memory ( RAM ) 830 for storage of instructions and data group in the determined set of steps . In some implementa during program execution and a read only memory ( ROM ) tions the relevance score for a step may be indicative of 30 832 in which fixed instructions are stored . A file storage confidence that the step is an appropriate step for completing subsystem 828 can provide persistent storage for program the task identified by the how - to query . The relevance score and data files , and may include a hard disk drive , a floppy for a step may be determined based on one or more methods disk drive along with associated removable edia , a CD utilized to determine the confidence measures of a source of ROM drive , an optical drive , or removable media cartridges . the step as described herein . For example , key terms and / or 35 The modules implementing the functionality of certain key phrases appearing in a step may be matched to key terms implementations may be optionally stored by file storage and / or key phrases that may be associated with the task subsystem 828 in the storage subsystem 824 , or in other identified by the how - to query . A step that more closely machines accessible by the processor ( s ) 814 . matches the task identified by the how - to query may be Bus subsystem 812 provides a mechanism for letting the associated with a relevance score more indicative of rel- 40 various components and subsystems of computer system evance to the task . For example , a step from a first source 810 communicate with each other as intended . Although bus may be " scrape the hardened tar off the shirt ” and it may be subsystem 812 is shown schematically as a single bus , in an identified group with a step from a second source that alternative implementations of the bus subsystem may use may be “ scrape the hardened tar off the fabric ” . The step of multiple busses . “ scrape the hardened tar off the shirt ” may have a higher 45 Computer system 810 can be of varying types including relevance score to the how - to query of “ how to remove tar a workstation , server , computing cluster , blade server , server from a shirt ” than would the step of “ scrape the hardened tar farm , or any other data processing system or computing off the fabric ” . Matching may be based on soft matching , device . Due to the ever - changing nature of computers and exact matching , determining semantic distance , and / or networks , the description of computer system 810 depicted determining distributional similarities between the respec- 50 in FIG . 8 is intended only as a specific example for purposes tive key terms and / or key phrases . of illustrating some implementations . Many other configu FIG . 8 is a block diagram of an example computer system rations of computer system 810 are possible having more or 810. Computer system 810 typically includes at least one fewer components than the computer system depicted in processor 814 which communicates with a number of FIG . 8 . peripheral devices via bus subsystem 812. These peripheral 55 While several inventive implementations have been devices may include a storage subsystem 824 , including , for described and illustrated herein , a variety of other means example , a memory subsystem 826 and a file storage sub and / or structures for performing the function and / or obtain system 828 , user interface input devices 822 , user interface ing the results and / or one or more of the advantages output devices 820 , and a network interface subsystem 816 . described herein may be utilized , and each of such variations The input and output devices allow user interaction with 60 and / or modifications is deemed to be within the scope of the computer system 810. Network interface subsystem 816 inventive implementations described herein . More gener provides an interface to outside networks and is coupled to ally , all parameters , dimensions , materials , and configura corresponding interface devices in other computer systems . tions described herein are meant to be exemplary and that User interface input devices 822 may include a keyboard , the actual parameters , dimensions , materials , and / or con pointing devices such as a mouse , trackball , touchpad , or 65 figurations will depend upon the specific application or graphics tablet , a scanner , a touchscreen incorporated into applications for which the inventive teachings is / are used . the display , audio input devices such as voice recognition Those skilled in the art will recognize , or be able to ascertain

sure . 
 US 10,585,927 B1 35 36 using no more than routine experimentation , many equiva ing example , " at least one of A and B ” ( or , equivalently , “ at lents to the specific inventive implementations described least one of Aor B , ” or , equivalently “ at least one of A and / or herein . It is , therefore , to be understood that the foregoing B ” ) can refer , in one implementation , to at least one , implementations are presented by way of example only and optionally including more than one , A , with no B present that , within the scope of the appended claims and equiva- 5 ( and optionally including elements other than B ) ; in another lents thereto , inventive implementations may be practiced implementation , to at least one , optionally including more otherwise than as specifically described and claimed . Inven than one , B , with no A present ( and optionally including tive implementations of the present disclosure are directed to elements other than A ) ; in yet another implementation , to at each individual feature , system , article , material , kit , and / or least one , optionally including more than one , A , and at least method described herein . In addition , any combination of 10 one , optionally including more than one , B ( and optionally two or more such features , systems , articles , materials , kits , including other elements ) ; etc. and / or methods , if such features , systems , articles , materials , As used herein in the specification and in the claims , the kits , and / or methods are not mutually inconsistent , is term “ database ” will be used broadly to refer to any collec included within the inventive scope of the present disclo tion of data . The data of the database does not need to be 15 structured in any particular way , or structured at all , and it All definitions , as defined and used herein , should be can be stored on storage devices in one or more geographic understood to control over vocabulary definitions , defini locations . tions in documents incorporated by reference , and / or ordi It should also be understood that , unless clearly indicated nary meanings of the defined terms . to the contrary , in any methods claimed herein that include The indefinite articles “ a ” and “ an , ” as used herein in the 20 more than one step or act , the order of the steps or acts of specification and in the claims , unless clearly indicated to the method is not necessarily limited to the order in which the contrary , should be understood to mean “ at least one . " the steps or acts of the method are recited . The phrase " and / or , ” as used herein in the specification In the claims , as well as in the specification above , all and in the claims , should be understood to mean “ either or transitional phrases such as “ comprising , ” “ including , ” “ car both ” of the elements so conjoined , i.e. , elements that are 25 rying , ” “ having , " " containing , ” “ involving , ” “ holding , ” conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively pres “ composed of , ” and the like are to be understood to be ent in other cases . Multiple elements listed with “ and / or ” open - ended , i.e. , to mean including but not limited to . Only should be construed in the same fashion , i.e. , “ one or more ” the transitional phrases " consisting of " and " consisting of the elements so conjoined . Other elements may optionally essentially of ” shall be closed or semi - closed transitional be present other than the elements specifically identified by 30 phrases , respectively , as set forth in the United States Patent the " and / or ” clause , whether related or unrelated to those Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures , Section elements specifically identified . Thus , as a non - limiting 2111.03 . example , a reference to " A and / or B ” , when used in con junction with open - ended language such as " comprising ” What is claimed is : can refer , in one implementation , to A only ( optionally 35 1. A method implemented by one or more processors , including elements other than B ) ; in another implementa comprising : tion , to B only ( optionally including elements other than A ) ; generating a set of steps , wherein the set of steps com in yet another implementation , to both A and B ( optionally prises an enumerated listing of instructions that assist including other elements ) ; etc. users in performing a task , and wherein generating the As used herein in the specification and in the claims , “ or ” 40 set of steps comprises : should be understood to have the same meaning as “ and / or ” identifying , from a first search result document and a as defined above . For example , when separating items in a second search result document that are responsive to list , “ or ” or “ and / or ” shall be interpreted as being inclusive , a search query , and based on the first search result i.e. , the inclusion of at least one , but also including more document and the second search result document than one , of a number or list of elements , and , optionally , 45 both being included in a threshold quantity of highest additional unlisted items . Only terms clearly indicated to the ranked search result documents for the search query , contrary , such as “ only one of or “ exactly one of , " or , when at least : used in the claims , “ consisting of , ” will refer to the inclusion a first set of steps from the first document , and of exactly one element of a number or list of elements . In a second set of steps from the second document and general , the term “ or ” as used herein shall only be inter- 50 generating the set of steps based on both the first set of preted as indicating exclusive alternatives ( i.e. “ one or the steps from the first document and the second set of other but not both ” ) when preceded by terms of exclusivity , steps from the second document such as “ either , ” “ one of , ” “ only one of , ” or “ exactly one of . ” storing an association of the set of steps with the search " Consisting essentially of , " when used in the claims , shall query ; have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law . 55 subsequent to storing the association , and in response to As used herein in the specification and in the claims , the receiving a first submission of the search query : phrase “ at least one , ” in reference to a list of one or more identifying the set of steps as responsive to the search elements , should be understood to mean at least one element query based on the stored association of the set of selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of steps with the search query ; elements , but not necessarily including at least one of each 60 identifying additional search results that are responsive and every element specifically listed within the list of to the search query , each of the additional search elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in results being associated with a corresponding search the list of elements . This definition also allows that elements result document ; may optionally be present other than the elements specifi determining to provide the additional search results in cally identified within the list of elements to which the 65 response to the first submission of the search query phrase “ at least one ” refers , whether related or unrelated to without also providing the set of steps in response to those elements specifically identified . Thus , as a non - limit the first submission of the search query ; and

query ; and 
 US 10,585,927 B1 37 38 providing the additional search results in response to document both being included in a threshold the first submission of the search query without also quantity of highest ranked search result docu providing the set of steps ; and ments for the search query , at least : subsequent to storing the association , and in response to a first set of steps from the first document , and receiving a second submission of the search query from 5 a second set of steps from the second document ; a client device of a user : and determining to provide the set of steps in response to generate the set of steps based on both the first set of the second submission of the search query , wherein steps from the first document and the second set of determining to provide the set of steps in response to steps from the second document ; the second submission of the search query is based 10 subsequent to storing the association , and in response on identifying that the user performed , prior to the second submission of the search query , one or more to receiving a first submission of the search query : identify the set of steps as responsive to the search past computing interactions that are indicative of the set of steps , query based on the stored association of the set of wherein the one or more past computing interactions 15 steps with the search query ; include at least one action that is in addition to a identify additional search results that are responsive search query issuance action and that is in addition to the search query , each of the additional search to a search result selection action , and results being associated with a corresponding providing the set of steps to the client device in search result document ; response to the second submission of the search 20 determine to provide the additional search results in query , wherein providing the set of steps to the client response to the first submission of the search device comprises providing the set of steps for query without also providing the set of steps in display above any of the additional search results . response to the first submission of the search 2. The method of claim 1 , further comprising : in response to the second submission of the search query , 25 provide the additional search results in response to providing the additional search results to the client the first submission of the search query without device for presentation in combination with the set of also providing the set of steps ; and steps . subsequent to storing the association , and in response 3. The method of claim 2 , wherein providing the addi to receiving a second submission of the search query tional search results to the client device for presentation in 30 from a client device of a user : combination with the set of steps comprises providing the determine to provide the set of steps in response to additional search results for less prominent presentation than the second submission of the search query , the set of steps . wherein determining to provide the set of steps in 4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the one or more past response to the second submission of the search computing interactions include a download initiated by the 35 query is based on identifying that the user per user or an email interaction . formed , prior to the second submission of the 5. The method of claim 1 , wherein the one or more past search query , one or more past computing inter computing interactions include a past electronic communi actions that are indicative of the set of steps , cation of the user . wherein the one or more past computing interactions 6. The method of claim 1 , wherein the one or more past 40 include at least one action that is in addition to a computing interactions include navigation to one or more search query issuance action and that is in addition electronic resources , by the user via the client device , that to a search result selection action ; and are related to a task of the search query . provide the set of steps to the client device in 7. The method of claim 1 , wherein determining to provide response to the second submission of the search the additional search results in response to the first submis- 45 query , wherein providing the set of steps to the sion of the search query without also providing the set of client device comprises providing the set of steps steps in response to the first submission of the search query for display above any of the additional search is based on : results . the set of steps being stored in association with the search 9. The computing system of claim 8 , wherein the instruc query , and a relevance score being stored for the 50 tions , when executed by the at least one processor , further association of the set of steps with the search query , and cause the at least one processor to : determining that the relevance score fails to satisfy a in response to the second submission of the search query , threshold . provide the additional search results to the client device 8. A computing system , comprising : for presentation in combination with the set of steps . at least one processor ; and 10. The computing system of claim 9 , wherein the instruc at least one computer - readable storage device storing tions to provide the additional search results to the client instructions that , when executed by the at least one device for presentation in combination with the set of steps processor , cause the at least one processor to : comprise instructions to provide the additional search results generate a set of steps , wherein the set of steps com for less prominent presentation than the set of steps . prises an enumerated listing of instructions that assist 60 11. The computing system of claim 8 , wherein the one or users in performing a task , and wherein the instruc more past computing interactions include a download initi tions to generate the set of steps further cause the at ated by the user or an email interaction . least one processor to : 12. The computing system of claim 8 , wherein the one or identify , from a first search result document and a more past computing interactions include a past electronic second search result document that are responsive 65 communication of the user . to a search query , and based on the first search 13. The computing system of claim 8 , wherein the one or result document and the second search result more past computing interactions include navigation to one 
 55

40 US 10,585,927 B1 39 or more electronic resources , by the user via the client device , that are related to a task of the search query . 14. The computing system of claim 8 , wherein the instruc tions to determine to provide the additional search results in response to the first submission of the search query without 5 also providing the set of steps in response to the first submission of the search query is based on : the set of steps being stored in association with the search query , and a relevance score being stored for the association of the set of steps with the search query , and 10 determining that the relevance score fails to satisfy a threshold . 15. The method of claim 1 , further comprising : determining a first query score for the first submission of the search query , wherein determining to provide the additional search results in response to the first submission of the search query without also providing the set of steps in response to the first submission of the search query is based on the first query score ; determining a second query score for the second submis sion of the search query , wherein determining the second query score comprises determining the second query score based on the one or more past computing interactions , and wherein the second query score differs from the first query score based on the one or more past computing interactions ; and wherein determining to provide the set of steps in response to the second submission of the search 30 query is based on the second query score . 
 15 
 20 
 25 
 * * * *