US012073187B2
az) United States Patent (10) Patent No.: US 12,073,187 B2
Freitag et al. (45) Date of Patent: Aug, 27, 2024
(54) AUTOMATIC EVALUATION OF NATURAI. (58) Field of Classification Search
LANGUAGE TEXT GENERATED BASED ON USPC vices MO47-10, 257
STRUCTURED DATA See application file for complete search history.
(71) Applicant GOOGLE LLC, Mountain View, CA (56) References Cited
(us)
U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS
(72) Inventors: Markus Freitag, Summyvale, CA (US);
Howard Scott Roy, Palo Alto, CA (US) 2014/0207439 Al* 7/2014 Venkatapathy ....... GOQGF 40/274
. 704/4
(73) Assignee: GOOGLE LLC, Mountain View, CA 2DTSIOO32443 AVS W201 Karo ooo GOR ABS
(US) 2019/0073997 AL*® 3/2019 Millon occu GLOL 15/16
2019/0139541 Al 5/2019 Andersen et al.
(*) Notice: Subject to any disclaimer, the term of this 2020/0349224 AL* 11/2020 Kurien 0.02.0... GO6F 40/274
patent is extended or adjusted under 35
USS.C. 154(b) by 285 days. OTHER PUBLICATIONS
(21) Appl. No.: 17/608,616 Dusek, ©. et al., “Evaluating the State-of-the-Art of End-to-End
. Natural Language Generation: The E2E NLG Challenge,” Com-
(22) PCT Filed: Aug. 22, 2019 puter Speech & Language, retrieved from internet: https://arxiv.org/
(86) PCT No. PCT/US2019/047719 pdf/1901.0793 Lvl: pp. 123-156; Jan. 23, 2019.
(Continued)
§ 371 (e)(L).
(2) Date: Nov, 3, 2021 Primary Examiner — Leonard Saint-Cyr
74) Attorney, Agent, Fi Gray Ice TTigd
(87) PCT Pub. No: WO2020/231453 (74) Adorney, Agent, or Firm Gray Tee Migdon
PCT Pub. Dato: Nov. 19, 2020 (57) ABSTRACT
- . tos Techniques are disclosed for training and/or utilizing an
(65) Prior Publication Data alignments and language model (“ALM”) in automatically
US 2022/0215184 Al Jul. 7, 2022 determining an ALM score corresponding with natural lan-
guage text generated using a natural language generation
Related U.S. Application Data model. ‘The natural language text generated using the natural
(60) Provisional application No. 62/847,078, tiled on May language generation model can be based on a set of struc-
13, 2019. tured data. Additionally or alternatively, the ALM can
include a fluency model portion and a semantics model
(51) Int. C1. portion. The fluency model portion can be used in deter-
GO6F 40/56 (2020.01) mining the fluency and/or grammar of the text. The seman-
GO6F 40/226 (2020.01) tics model portion be used in evaluating the content of the
GO6L 4030 (2020.01) natural language text with respect to the content of the
(52) U.S. Ch structured data.
CPC wn GOOF 40/36 (2020.01); GO6F 40/226
(2020.01); GO6F 40/30 (2020.01) 20 Claims, 10 Drawing Sheets
/ °
DATAUSING A NATURALLANGUAGE GENERATION MODEL
oR
ALIGNMENTS ANG LANGUAGE MODEL (ALM) TO DETERMINE A
FLUENCY ScORE
704
206
(2) THE senaanmnics SCORE
ma
‘TEXT AND (2) THE ALM SCORE
710

US 12,073,187 B2
Page 2
(56) References Cited
OTHER PUBLICATIONS
Reed, T.. et al., “Can Neural Generators for Dialogue T.earn Sen-
tence Planning and Discourse Structuring?;” Cornell LIniversity;
arXiv.org; arXiv:1809.03014v1; LO pages; dated Sep. 9, 2018
Reed, L. ct al., “Can Neural Generators for Dialogue Learn Sen-
tence Planning and Discourse Structuring?;” Cornell University;
arXiv.org; arXiv:1809.03015v2; 12 pages; dated Nov. 1, 2018.
Smiley, C. et al., “The E2E NLG Challenge: A Tale of Two
Systems;” Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on
Natural Language Generation; pp. 472-477; Nov. §, 2018
Belz, A. ct al., “Comparing Automatic and Human Evaluation of
NLG Systems;” retrieved from internet: https://www.achweb.ore/
anthology/E06-1040.pdf: 8 pages; 2006.
European Patent Office; International Scarch Report and Written
Opinion of Ser. No. PCT/US2019/047719, 15 pages; dated Jan. 22,
2020.
Hill, F. et al., “Learning Distributed Representations of Sentences
from Unlabelled Data;” arXiv.org, arXiv: 1602.03483v1; 11 pages;
dated Feb. 10, 2016
Freitag, M. et al., “Unsupervised Natural T.anguage Generation with
Denoising Autoencoders:” arXiv.org: arXiv: 1804.07899v2; 8 pages,
dated Aug. 24, 2018.
European Patent Office; Communication pursuant to Article 94(3)
FPC issued in Application No. 19762658.3; 7 pages, dated Feb. 23,
2023.
Furopean Patent Office, Summons to Attend Oral Proceedings
issued for Application No. 19762658.3, 33 pages, dated Teb. 5,
2024.
Turopean Patent Office, Brief Response issued for Application No.
19762658.3, 9 pages, dated Jun. 20, 2024.
* cited by examiner

U.S. Patent Aug. 27, 2024 Sheet 1 of 10 US 12,073,187 B2
o
Oo
el
\ -
5
a
=
_l
<
an
<8 [, g a
rs og Ew e
zw oe za 9 Zan
ta) | tn |
g25/$o8)|298 U)
4
9 z
S< 2a '
EN o<t¢agd ‘o
beg Z29§ ag
oc z=
= Ww
wn oO

U.S. Patent Aug. 27, 2024 Sheet 2 of 10 US 12,073,187 B2
/ 200
ALIGNMENTS AND
ALM ENGINE LANGUAGE MODEL
204 210
FLUENCY ENGINE FLUENCY MODEL
206 212
SEMANTICS ENGINE
a 214
ALM TRAINING ENGINE
216
TRAINING
F | G 2 INSTANCES
° 218

U.S. Patent Aug. 27, 2024 Sheet 3 of 10 US 12,073,187 B2
°
3S
m
a
\ =

oa)

Vv
OO | | | oe | =

Te)

©

a

ol
Oe | | | |

7a)

<=

A

cB)
| | | | | ee —a~| &

— cOE
cL.
LLL
ee 8 cy)

Cc

c e
RERRE BEBE \u)

mm
Li.
OO | | | | ee
ale
c a|
v5} a| v=
= — SE
st
3°
a

U.S. Patent Aug. 27, 2024 Sheet 4 of 10 US 12,073,187 B2
P=
wz
8 \
tT
\
: 8
\ ro [=
2 ¢
5 6S
“
t| 2/5 s s
=| 8)'o Te) N
wo Cc Sa N _
Q\¢)2 00 Z
<=
00} ip] 1a < ° bo co
gG=
N
o| & : + - 4 +
w| 6| 2 —_ c .
£\8/3| © +2 5290
Aia|oql —™| Cc — c c —
o/c; s| LL OC oO -= Oo LL
LE] 8 o# OC
2/0; 0 —_— & Pa
| o} co wt o
0|6| 6 c S
=) mL << ~
aa)
Cc oO
=
WY jos
c be
-_ 2
© r=
° ,2
Q e
< ~
<= c
O =
™ ©
nd

U.S. Patent Aug. 27, 2024 Sheet 5 of 10 US 12,073,187 B2
3
Ww
3 wn , ®
; 5
v Ve fe)
— ze) rd) —
So S55 «
= Ss $= &s
ae}
5 &£ wo cf
= a. — c
> vo dD —
= t 3oOQ 38
> >
El ~ 22 &
we] > = or roe
. c« U ep
= 2 < c
a?) sc ©
<@) c =
8 o ¢€%4 324
- Lo)
=|=\ ef & S82 # LIA
Te) “ a un ow
e = ses .
© e = nC = 9
& “ Oo GC =
o| 3|O ~ + 7
P| 2) Lh s >2 ra
~ fob) v =
w © Y @ £
‘ S _ oc £
O 8 oo roe)
rc oO ss 6
2 - © 8)
~ c ini = —
2 S oy 8
~ ae} vo
oO —
oO c © Po ©
2 ~~ OY YL
Cc _ ~
x oO o (o)
w YY on
2 $2 8
v < £& Q
oO = >
<— o =
rE >
x=

U.S. Patent Aug. 27, 2024 Sheet 6 of 10 US 12,073,187 B2
/ 600
SELECT A NATURAL LANGAUGE TRAINING INSTANCE
602
UPDATE A FLUENCY MODEL PORTION OF AN ALIGNMENTS AND
LANGUAGE MODEL (ALM) BY PROCESSING THE TRAINING INSTANCE
604
UPDATE A SEMANTICS MODEL PORTION OF THE ALM BY
YES PROCESSING THE TRAINING INSTANCE

606

ADDITIONAL?
608

FIG. 6

U.S. Patent Aug. 27, 2024 Sheet 7 of 10 US 12,073,187 B2
/ 700
RECEIVE TEXT GENERATED BY PROCESSING A SET OF STRUCTURED
DATA USING A NATURAL LANGUAGE GENERATION MODEL
702
PROCESS THE TEXT USING A FLUENCY MODEL PORTION OF AN
ALIGNMENTS AND LANGUAGE MODEL (ALM) TO DETERMINE A
FLUENCY SCORE
704
PROCESS THE TEXT USING A SEMANTICS MODEL PORTION OF THE
ALM TO DETERMINE A SEMANTICS SCORE
706
DETERMINE AN ALM SCORE BASED ON: (1) THE FLUENCY SCORE AND
(2) THE SEMANTICS SCORE
708
CAUSE A CLIENT DEVICE TO PERFORM ACTION(S) BASED ON: (1) THE
TEXT AND (2) THE ALM SCORE
710
FIG. 7

U.S. Patent Aug. 27, 2024 Sheet 8 of 10 US 12,073,187 B2
/ 800
RECEIVE A PLURALITY OF INSTANCES OF TEXT BASED ON A SET OF
STRUCTURED DATA, EACH INSTANCE GENERATED BY PROCESSING
THE SET OF STRUCTURED DATA USING A NATURAL LANGUAGE
GENERATION MODEL
802
SELECT AN INSTANCE OF TEXT FROM THE PLURALITY OF INSTANCES
OF TEXT
804
PROCESS THE SELECTED INSTANCE OF TEXT TO DETERMINE A
CORRESPONDING ALM SCORE
806
YES
ADDITIONAL?
808
NO
SELECT INSTANCE(S) OF TEXT BASED ON THE CORRESPONDING ALM
SCORE(S)
$10
GENERATE AUDIO WAVEFORM(S) BASED ON THE SELECTED
INSTANCE(s) OF TEXT
812
CAUSE A CLIENT DEVICE TO RENDER OUTPUT BASED ON THE AUDIO
WAVEFORM(S)
814
FIG. 8

U.S. Patent Aug. 27, 2024 Sheet 9 of 10 US 12,073,187 B2
_——— ne
CLIENT DEVICE 902
| AUTOMATED |
| || ASSISTANT CLIENT 904 |
| |
| |} [LOCAL ENGINE(S) 906 | 900
| |
| |
| |
|
= 908
| I
| |
| CLOUD-BASED AUTOMATED ASSISTANT |
| COMPONENT(S) |
| 910 |
| |
| |
NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSOR
| — |
| |

FIG. 9

U.S. Patent Aug. 27, 2024 Sheet 10 of 10 US 12,073,187 B2
~
ce
oS
we
WwW 4
w ui
Oo w «Vv
exact oe i
ou DY uA
ed ae
Few 2ZVe
z 9 a.
7 we
o>
23
a
nN
3 c ©
8 So
ee
e
Lu
Zee a4
wo iri ew
oa Ee Li
2 8 a) zz
— a n =
wi
>
a S wo
a
29 | # = §
w = “vn
og z
a2 a we
fo) 2 9 fo)
he “nm a
“ > 2 —sy vw
ec ew Lu
nn (s) Y
als 2
ea wg a
2a
Oo wT
2 5
S a

US 12,073,187 B2
1 2
AUTOMATIC EVALUATION OF NATURAL For example, a client device can include multiple natural
LANGUAGE TEXT GENERATED BASED ON language generation models. Text generated using cach
STRUCTURED DATA model can be processed with the ALM to generale corre-
sponding ALM scores. In a variety of implementations, the
BACKGROUND 3 ALM scores can be utilized to select text such as selecting
the text with the corresponding ALM score thal is most
Natural language processing involves interactions indicative of fluency and semantics, which can be the text
between computing devices and human languages (.e., with the highest corresponding ALM score or the text with
natural languages). A wide variety of natural language the lowest corresponding ALM score (depending on the
problems exist including speech recognition, natural lan- 10 implementation and whether a higher score indicates greater
guage understanding, natural language generation, etc. fluency and semantics), selecting instances of text with an
Natural language generation models can be used to process ALM score above a threshold value ele. In many imple-
structured dala using one or more compuling devices to 7 . ‘ . oe ; ie device c ee
generale lext, speech, etc. For example, a nalural language mentations, one or more actions of ac rent levice can be
generation system can generate the natural language text of 15 performed based on the selected text. For example, the
“Five lights are currently tumed on in your kitchen” by action(s) can include generating an audio waveform based
processing the sct of structured data “number of lights=5; on the selected text (e.g. using a text-to-speech model);
room=kitchen” using a natural language generation model. rendering audio (via speaker(s)) based on the generated
Natural language gencration models can use machine learn- audio waveform; rendering the selected text on a display;
ing model(s) (such as artificial neural network(s)) to predict 20 Causing a networked device to perform one or more actions
the likelihood of a sequence of words given a set of based on the selected text; and/or performing other action(s).
structured data. Generated text evaluation can be divided into a variety of
evaluation sub-tasks. In many implementations, AT.M pro-
SUMMARY cesses can be divided into at least two evaluation sub-tasks:
25 (1) Nuency evaluation and (2) semantics evaluation. lluency
Implementations described herein are directed. towards evaluation can assess the Muency (Le., an indication of the
automatically evaluating natural language text using an likelihood a human will perceive the text as natural) and/or
alignments and language model (“ALM”), where the natural the grammar (i.e., an indication of the likelihood that the text
language text is generated by processing structured data is grammatically correct) of natural language text. Addition-
using a natural language generation model. In some imple- 30 ally or alternatively, semantics evaluation can assess the
mentations, one or more instances of natural language text content of the text with respect to the structured data utilized
can be generated based on the same set of structured data, in generating the text (i.e., penalizing content included in the
utilizing one or more natural language generation model(s). structured data and missing from the text; penalizing content
For example, “The thermostat is set to 72 degrees. It is 91 included in the structured data and repeated in the text;
degrees right now in Touisville.”; “The exterior temperature 35 penalizing additional content included in the text that is not
in Louisville is 91 degrees and. your thermostat is sel to 72 included in the siructured data, etc.).
degrees”, and/or additional instances of text can each be Fluency can be evaluated by processing the generated
generated based on a set of structured data of “thermostat natural language text using a fuency model portion of the
temperature—72; location—Louisville; external tempera- ALM to generate a fluency score. In many implementations,
ture—91". One of the generated instances of natural lan- 40 the fluency score is independent of the structured data used
guage text can be selected based on its ALM score that is in generating the text. The fluency model portion of the
generated utilizing the ALM. and the sclected instance ALM can be represented by a statistical language model
visually rendered and/or corresponding synthesized speech such as an n-gram language model which is used as an
generated and rendered. As described herein, the generated approximation of the underlying, language. This n-gram
ALM score can be based on both a fluency score and a 45 language model can be trained based on unlabeled data.
semantics score, and selecting the instance based on the Semantics can be evaluated by processing the generated
ALM score can ensure the selected instance conveys under- natural language text as well as the structured data used in
lying semantics of the structured data with language and generating (he text using a semantics model portion of the
phrasing that resonates with a receiving user. This can make ALM. A first probability indicating the likelihood the gen-
the overall duration of an interaction shorter than it would 50 erated text was generated using the structured. data can be
otherwise need to be, thereby saving computational load. determined to check if all information in the structured data
ALM processes can evaluate generated text by processing is present in the text. Similarly, a second probability can be
the text using an ALM to generate an ALM score. This score determined indicating the likelihood the structured data was
can be used to compare the natural language gencration used in generating the text, which can provide an indication
model used in generating the text with additional and/or 55 if all information in the generated text can be aligned to
alternative natural language generation meodel(s). For feature(s) in the structured data. A semantics score can be
example, a first instance of text can be generated by pro- determined based on these two probabilities.
cessing a sel of structured data using a first natural language In many implementations, ihe ALM score can be deter-
generation model. A second instance of text can be generated mined based on both the fluency score and based on the
by processing the same set of structured data using a second 60 semantics score. l‘or example, the ALM score can be deter-
natural language generation model. The first instance of text mined. using the average and/or other combination of the
can be processed using the ALM to generate a first ALM fluency score and the semantics score. In many implemen-
score. Similarly, the second instance of text can be processed tations, natural language generation task specific weights
using the same ALM to generate a second ALM score. In ean be utilized in determining the ALM score. In other
many implementations, the first and second ALM scores can 65 words, semantics can be more important to some natural
be utilized to evaluate the first natural language generation language generation tasks and/or fluency can be more
model and/or the second natural language generation model. important to other natural language generation tasks.

US 12,073,187 B2
3 4

Thus, the semantics score and the Muency score can be be visually and/or audibly rendered. Since the selected text
weighted differently, in generating the AI.M score, in depen- has high fluency and/or semantics, it is more quickly ascer-
dence on the natural language generation task for which an tainable by a user to which it is rendered. ‘his can prevent
instance of natural language text (being evaluated) is gen- the user from needing to request the text again, wasting
erated. For example, if the natural language generation task 5 computational resources, and/or can cnable the user to more
is to gencrate natural language text from structured data that quickly provide further user interface input that is respon-
specifics router settings for configuring a router, the scman- sive to the selected text, reducing computer/user interaction
tics score can be weighted more heavily than the fluency duration and conserving computational resources.
score to ensure structured data is included in the instance of The above description is provided only as an overview of
natural language text—which can be critical to ensure 10 some implementations disclosed herein. These and other
proper configuration of the router. As another example, if the implementations of the technology are disclosed in addi-
natural language generation task is instead to generate tional detail below.
natural language text from structured data that reflects It should be appreciated that all combinations of the
details of a restaurant (¢.g., cuisine lype, cast, review(s), foregoing concepts and additional concepts described in
then the fluency score can be weighted more heavily to 15 greater detail herein are contemplated as being part of the
ensure (he natural language lext conveys the details using subject matter disclosed herein. For example, all combina-
fanguage and phrasing which ints with a vith. as can tions of claimed subject matter appearing at the end of this
make the overall duration of interaction with the user i ing j
shorter, by preventing clarifying follow-up prompts by the disclos ected nae lated as being part of the subject
user (as a result of the resonating natural language text), 20
thereby saving computational load in a computing system BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
hosting an automated assistant and/or other application(s)
rendering the natural language text (and/or corresponding FIG. 1 illustrates an example of determining an align-
generated audio data). In these and other manners, fluency ments and language score for an instance of natural language
and. semantic scores can be dynamically weighted, in depen- 25 text in accordance with various implementations disclosed
dence on the natural language generation task, to ensure herein.
important structured data is conveyed in natural language FIG. 2 illustrates an example environment in which
text for certain natural language generation tasks, while implementations disclosed herein can be implemented.
promoting shorter duration of interactions for certain other FIG. 3 illustrates an cxample alignment between struc-
natural language generation tasks. 30 tured data and natural language text generated based on the

Accordingly, various implementations set forth tech- structured data in accordance with various implementations
niques for automatically evaluating, natural language gen- disclosed herein.
eration models and/or text generated using natural language FIGS. 4A and 4B illustrate a set of structured data and
generation model processes using, an alignments and lan- natural language text generated based on the set of struc-
guage model. Fvaluating natural language generation 35 tured data in accordance with various implementations dis-
model(s) in a fully supervised manner can be resource closed herein.
and/or labor intensive. For example, a natural language FIGS. 5A and 5B illustrate another set of structured data
generation model can be evaluated by evaluating inslances and natural language (ext generated based on the set of
of text generated using the model. In evaluating a single structured data in accordance with various implementations
instance of text, relevant data (e.g., text generated using the 40 disclosed herein.
natural language generation model, structured data used in FIG. 6 is a flowchart illustrating an example process in
generating the text, ctc.) must be transmitted to a client —_ accordance with implementations disclosed herein.
device of a human reviewer, resources of the client device FIG. 7 is a flowchart illustrating another example process
utilized to enable the reviewer to provide an annotation, and in accordance with implementations disclosed herein.
the annotation transmitted back for evaluation. Implemen- 45 — FIG. $ is a flowchart illustrating another example process
tations disclosed herein utilize automatically generating an in accordance with implementations disclosed herein.
ATM score, enabling systems to quickly evaluate a wide TG. 9 illustrates another example environment in which
number natural language generation models — without trans- implementations disclosed. herein can be implemented.
mission of data to client devices of reviewers and without FIG. 10 illustrates an example architecture of a computing
ulilization of resources of those client devices in oblaining 50 device.
reviewer provided annotations. Additionally or alternatively,
different human reviewers can score the same instance on DETAILED DESCRIPTION
natural language text differently. ALM scores generated by
processing natural language text using an ALM can provide Evaluation is a crucial component of natural language
a uniform scoring system, thus enabling a reproducible 55 processing. Without evaluation, it can be impossible to
comparison of natural language generation models. For measure quality. One way to evaluate a natural language
example, a current version of a natural language generation processing process is to recruit human subjects and ask them
model can be compared with a previous version of the to assess system output along with some predetermined.
natural language generation model by comparing, automati- criteria. Tlowever, human evaluation is expensive and time-
cally generated ALM scare(s). 60 consuming. l'or developers who may need to rapidly lest

As described herein, a client device can perform action(s) multiple system configurations, the time factor is a signifi-
based on text selected based on the ALM score for the text. cant barrier. Due to these reasons, there is a huge demand to
For example, multiple natural language generation medels develop methods of evaluation that can automatically pro-
can be utilized in generating candidate text based on the vide results that are proxics for human judgement.
same set of structured data. An instance of text can be 65 Implementations disclosed herein utilize an automatic
selected from the candidate text based on the selected text’s inetrie that yields high correlation with human ratings on
ALM score. In many implementations, the selected text can data-to-text generations. The data-to-text task can he for-

US 12,073,187 B2
5 6
mulated as generating a natural language oulput conditioned implementations, the fluency model can be trained using
on a table T (ie., structured data). The table T consists of natural language generation task specific training data. Fur-
several field-value records and the natural language output thermore, in various implementations, the Nuency model
should include all of the information present in the table. portion can be trained using subword units to overcome the
ALM evaluation can include two core ideas: metrics for 5 problem of out-of-vocabulary words. ; ;
different evaluation subtasks and reproducibility/simplicity. . In many implementations, semantics evaluation can
Fyaluation subtasks can include a fluency evaluation include comparing the text generated using the natural
subtask as well as a semantics evaluation subtask. The language generation model with the structured data used in
evaluation sub-tasks can be evaluated separately utilizing generating the text (in contrast to comp aring, the generated
different models. This has several advantages: First, evalu- '" text with an instance of “golden reference” text generated
. . ae . using the same set of structured data). The generated output
ation models can be detined that concentrate on the subtask im A . .
. (Le., the generated text) can be aligned with the input
problems. For example, fluency evaluation does not need to caniution ft yee a ot
. . representation (i.e., the structured data). In many implemen-
evaluate the content and van be rated without having access tations, it can be assumed Uhat when a semantics model only
to the table information. Semantics evaluation, on the other aligns a lew words of an inpul/output pair, it is very likely
hand, can concentrate on content words. Further, task- thal they are semantically diferent. In many implement-
specific weights can be assigned to the importance of the tions, the alignment process of the semantics model is based
sublasks. F or example, a much higher weight can be placed on the IBM-1 model from machine translation. For an flatten
on semantic correctness. input representation s=s,,.... 8, of length N and a target
Additionally or alternatively, ALM evaluation is repro- 39 sequence t=t,. ty; of length M and lexical probabilities
ducible and simple. Different alignments and language pr(s,t;), the conditional probability p(sit) of t being gener-
model implementations will yield the same ALM score ated by s with can be determined by:
when running with the same tokenization and normalization.
This makes it possible to compare scores between different
groups and approaches. Further, ALM scores are easy LO 9.5 p= ne maxy<jeus prs, 13)
understand. In a variety of implementations, neural network el “ ’
models are avoided due to the challenge in interpreting the
models as well as different neural network models not Additionally or alternatively, a NULL word can be uti-
yielding the same ALM scores when trained by different lized to account for words that likely have no counterpart,
groups. Additionally or alternatively, only natural language 39 such as a null word on the target side. In many implemen-
task specific data is utilized in training and/or evaluating tations, word(s) without a proper target translation are
ALMs to increase the reproducibility of the model as well as aligned to that NULL word.
improve the model for domain specific words and phrases. In many implementations, lexical probabilities can be
In a variety of implementations, there is no need to trained using the natural language generation task specific
process the table information (i.c., the structure data) to 45 training data utilized in training the fluency model portion.
evaluate the fluency of natural language text generated based For example, the open source toolkit fastAlign can be
on the table information. Tn other words, fluency evaluation utilized for alignment calculation(s) where the precision
sublask is independent of the actual content of the text. In parameter is sel to A=O.
many implementations, fluency can be evaluated using a In a yariety of implementations, both the alignments
statistical language model such as an n-gram language 49 scores p(si) and p(tls) can be determined in semantics
model where each word depends only on the last n-1 words. evaluation. First, the probability if the generated text (i.e.,
This Markov model can be utilized as an approximation of the text generated using the natural language generation
the actual underlying language: model) has been produced by the table (ie., the structured
data) with p(tls) to check if all information of the table is
45 present in the text. Second, probability p(slt) can be deter-
Pty oes fn) =| [EPG wey tet) mined to check if all information of the target sequence can
- be aligned to some table features. Tn a variety of implemen-
tations, the Mluency score is determined as the average of the
Tn many implementations, using an n-gram language alignment scores in both directions by:
model instead of, for example, a neural-network based <q
language model increases the reproducibility of the fluency soms,\=Vapts)+'4p(s)
model as retraining the slalistical language model on the Additionally or alternatively, for some natural language
same data yields the same probabilities. In some implemen- veneration tasks, the semantics score can be determined
tations, the fluency score of the sequence t),.... thy is based on the only p(sit) or p(tls).
normalized by the number of words M in the sequence. 55° An ALM score in accordance with many implementations
Resulting in the following equation: is based on a combination of the semantics score and the
fluency score. For example:
. Pity, ... 5 tu) ALM(s,)=10004sern(s.4)+4+fluency ()
Nueney(t), ... £4.) —- ———————
“ 60 Additionally or alternatively, the ALM score can be
determined based on natural language generation task spe-
In a yariety of implementations, the statistical language cific weights. For example, for some tasks semantics can be
model (i.e., the uency model portion of the ALM) can be more important than fluency or fluency can be more impor-
trained on a massive amount of unlabeled data in a repro- tant than semantics.
ducible way. However, natural language task-specific terms 65 FIG. 1 illustrates an example of determining an ALM
can be infrequent in other domains which results in language score by processing text and a corresponding set of struc-
model scores that would penalize them. Therefore, in some tured data using an AIM model. In the illustrated example

US 12,073,187 B2
7 8

100, siructured data 102 is processed using natural language systems. In some implementations, one or more aspecis of
generation model 104 to generate text 106. Tor example, the engines 204, 206, 208, 216 may be combined in a single
set of structured data 400 illustrated in V'1G. 4A indicating system and/or one or more aspects may be implemented on
the birth date, birthplace, and occupation of John (birth the client device 202. For example, in some of those
date—Aug. 26, 1942; birthplace—San Antonio: occupa- 5 implementations, aspects of ALM engine 204 may be com-
tion—fighter pilot) can be processed using natural language bined with aspects of ALM training engine 216. Engines in
generation model 104 to gencrate the instance of text 402 accordance with many implementations may cach be imple-
illustrated in FIG. 4B of “John, born in San Antonio on 1942 mented in one or more computing devices that communi-
Aug. 26, worked as a fighter pilot”. Additionally or alter- cate, for example, through a communications network. A
natively, set of structured data 400 of FIG. 4A can be 16 communications network may include a wide area network
processed using, an additional or alternative natural language such as the Internet, one or more local area networks
generation model 104 to generate the instance of text 402 (“T.AN”s) such as Wi-Fi ILANs, mesh networks, etc., and/or
illustrated in TIG. 4B of “John, a fighter pilot, was born on one or more bus subsystems. A communication network may
Aug. 26, 1942 in San Antonio”. As a further example, the set oplionally utilize ene or more standard communication
of structured data 500 illustrated in FIG. 5A describing 15 technologies, protocols, and/or inter-process communication
Llypothetical Café of “name—llypothetical Caf—; type— techniques.
restaurant; food—tIndian; family friendly—yes” can be pro- ALM engine 204 includes fluency engine 206, semantics
cessed by natural language gencration model 102 to generate engine 208, and/or additional engine(s) (not depicted). In
text 502 of “There is an Indian restaurant that is kids several implementations. ALM engine 204 can process
friendly. It is Hypothetical Cafe.”; to generate text 504 of 20 structured data and or text generated based on the structured
“Hypothetical Caté is a well-received restaurant with a wide data (c.g., the text can be generated by processing the
range of delicious Indian food. It also delivers fantastic structured data using, a natural language generation model)
service to young children”: to generate text 506 of “Hypo- using alignments and language model 210 to generate an
thetical Café is a family friendly restaurant providing, Indian ALM score. ATM 210 can include a fluency model portion
food”; and/or additional text generated based. on structured 25 212 us well as a semantics model portion 214. In many
data 500. implementations, Nuency engine 206 can be process gener-

‘Text 106 and structured data 102 can be processed using, ated text using fluency model portion 212 to generate a
alignments and language model 108 to determine ALM fluency score. Additionally or alternatively, semantics
score 114. In many implementations, alignments and lan- engine 208 can process generated text as well as structured
guage model 108 can include a fluency model portion 110 30 data utilized in generating the text using semantics model
and a semantics model portion 112. Fluency model portion portion 214 to gencrate a semantics score. ALM engine 204
110 can be utilized to determine a fluency score by process- can determine an ATM score based on the fluency score and
ing text 106. In many implementations, the fluency score the semantics score.
provides an indication of the fluency and/or the grammar of In a variety of implementations, client device 202, utiliz-
text 106 and can be independent of the content of the text. 35 ing ATM training engine 216. can train AI.M 210 including
Additionally or alternatively, semantics model portion 112 the fuency model portion 212 and/or the semantics model
can be ulilized to determine a semantics score by processing portion 214 using twining instances 218. In a variely of
structured data 102 as well as text 106. In a variety of implementations, training instances 218 include unlabeled
implementations, the semantics score can provide an evalu- data. Utilizing training instances to train ALM 210 is
ation of the content of text 106 by aligning the text with 40 described with respect to process 600 of FIG. 6.
feature(s) in the structured data. In a varicty of implemen- FIG, 3 illustrates an example alignment in accordance
tations, the fluency score and the semantics score can be with implementations disclosed herein. Alignment 300 illus-
used to determine ALM score 114. trates a mapping between structured data 302 of “name John

FIG. 2 illustrates an example environment in which Doe, jr. height 1905 meter” and generated text 304 of “John
implementations disclosed herein may be implemented. The 45 Doe jr is 1905 meters tall.”. In the illustrated example, an
example environment 200 if FIG. 2 includes client device *X’ indicates a feature in the structured data corresponds
202, AI.M engine 204, fluency engine 206, semantics engine with a feature in the generated text. Similarly, */ indicates a
208, alignments and language model 210, fluency model feature in the structured data is not aligned with a feature in
212, semantics mode! 214, ALM training engine 216, train- the generated text. Tor example, ‘John’ aligns with ‘John’,
ing inslances 218, and/or additional engine(s) and/or so ‘Doe’ aligns with ‘Doe’, ‘jr’ aligns with ‘jr’, ‘1.905* aligns
model(s) (not depicted). The client device 202 may be, for with ‘1.905’, ‘meters’ aligns with ‘meter’, and ‘tall’ aligns
example, a standalone voice-activated speaker device, a with ‘height’. One or more features of generated text 304 do
desktop computing device, a laptop computing device, a not align with feature(s) in structured data 302 including ‘is”
tablet computing device, a mobile phone computing device, and ‘.”. In many implementations, portions of the generated
a computing device in the vehicle of the user (e.g., an 55 text that do not align with the structured data can be aligned
in-vehicle communications system, an in-vehicle entertain- to ‘NULL’. Additionally or alternatively, one or more fea-
ment system, an in-vehicle navigation system), and/or a tures of structured data 302 are not aligned with any portion
wearable apparatus of the user thal includes a computing of generated text 304 including ‘name’ and *,’. In some
device (e.g., a watch having a computing device, glasses implementations, portion(s) of structured data which do not
having a compuling device, a virtual or augmented reality 60 align with portion(s) of generated text can be additionally or
compuling device, elc.). Additional and/or alternative client allernalively be aligned to ‘NULL’.
devices may be provided. FIG. 6 is a flowchart illustrating a process 600 of training

ALM engine 204, fluency engine 206, semantics engine an alignments and language model according to implemen-
208. and ALM training engine 216 are cxample components tations disclosed herein. For convenience, the operations of
in which techniques described herein may interface. The 65 the flowchart are described with reference to a system that
operations performed by one or more engines 204, 206, 208, performs operations. This system may include various com-
216 of FIG. 2 may be distributed across multiple computing ponents of various computer systems, such as one or more

US 12,073,187 B2
9 10
components of client device 202 of T1G. 2. Moreover, while At block 706, the system processes the generated. text
operations of process 600 are shown in a particular order, using a semantics model portion of the AI.M to determine a
this is nol meant to be limiling. One or more operations may semantics score. In many implementations, the system can
be reordered, omitted, and/or added. additionally process the corresponding set of structured data

At block 602, the system selects a natural language 5 in addition to the generated text to determine the semantics
(raining instance. In many implementations, the natural score. In a variety of implementations, both the alignments
language training instance is an unlabeled instance of text. Scores p(sit) and pts) can be determined in semantics
For example, an ALM can be trained for use in generating evaluation. First, the probability if the generated text (c.,
ALM scores for instances of natural language text including the text gencrated using the natural language gencration
a recommendation of a restaurant based on structured data '” model) has been produced by the table (.e., the structured
correspondine with the restaurant. An unlabeled trainin data) with p(tls) to check if all information of the table is
: P e re rn auning, present in the text. Second, probability p(slt) can be deter-
instance can include sentence(s) describing a restaurant, ined to check if all informati the ts ; _

yithout additional indication(s) describing the instance of mined! to cheek 11 all Mormalion of te targel Sequence can
withou cat — . = . . be aligned to some table features. In a variety of implemen-
text. Additionally or allernatively, the natural language Waim- 15 tations, the Quency score is determined as the average of the
ing, instance can include a structured data portion, where the alignment scores in both directions by:
text is based on the structured data.

At block 604, the system updates a Nuency model portion sem(s,t) Mip(t}p(s)
of the AI.M by processing the training instance. For Additionally or alternatively, for some natural language
example, the system can process the natural language text to 2) generation tasks, the semantics score can be determined
train a slalistical language model such as an n-gram lan- based on the only p(sit) or p(tls).
guage mode such that the statistical language model pro- At block 708, the system determines an AI.M score based
vides an approximation of the underlying language. on the fluency score determined at block 704 and based on

At block 606, the system updates a semantics model the semantics score determined at block 706. Tor example,
portion of the ATM by processing the training instance. For 25 the ALM score can be determined by giving the semantics
exaniple, (he system can process the instance of text as well score and the fluency score equal weights in the ALM score:
asa corresponding instance of structured data, and update ALM(s0) 100¢sem(s,2)+stlencyie)
the semantics model based on the processing. ns .

At block 608, the system determines whether to process _ While the fluency score and the semantics score are
additional training instance(s). Tf so, the system proceeds 2° weighted equally in the illustrated example, the semantics
back to block 602, selecis an additional unlabeled natural score and fluency score can be weighted such that the
language training instance before proceeding to blocks 604 fluency score or the semantics score has a greater weight on
and 606. Lf the system does not determine lo process any the ALM score (e.g., the fluency score is weighted by 0.75
additional training instances, the process ends. and the semantics score is weighted by 0.25; the fluency

FIG. 7 is a flowchart illustrating a process 700 of gener 35 Score is weighted by 0.25 and the semantics score is
ating an ALM score using an ALM according to implemen- weighted by 0.75; the Quency score is weighted by 0.49 and
tations disclosed herein. For convenience, the operations of the semantics score Is weighted by 0.51; and fluency scare
the flowchart are described with reference to a system that and the semantics scores are weighted. by additional and/or
performs operations. This system may include various com- alternative values). . .
ponents of various computer systems, such as one or more 42 At block 710, the system causes a client device to perform
components of client device 202 of FIG. 2. Moreover, while one or more actions based on the generated text and the
operations of process 700 are shown in a particular order, ALM score. In many implementations, the system can
this is not meant to be limiting. One or more operations may determine whether the ALM score satisfies a threshold
be reordered, omitted, and/or added. value, and if so, can render output based on the generated

At block 702. the system receives lext generated by 4 text. For example, a system can determine an ALM score of
processing a set of structured. data using a natural language 90 for the generated text of “It is 75 degrees and sunny here
generation model. Kor example, the system can receive today in Mountain View”. The system can determine
instance of text 402 illustrated in FIG. 4B of “John, born in whether the ALM score satisfies a threshold value of 85. In
San Antonio of 1942 Aug. 26, worked as a fighter pilot” response to determining the ALM score of 90 satisfies the
based on structured data 400 illustrated in FIG. 4A describ- 5° threshold value of 85, the system determine an audio wave-
ing John’s birth date (Aug. 26, 1942), birthplace (San form based on the generated text and cause the client device
Antonio), and occupation (fighter pilot). to render the audio waveform. Additionally or alternatively,

At block 704, the system processes the generated text the system can visually render the gencrated text via a
using a fluency model portion of an AT.M to determine a display of the client device. Additional and/or alternative
fluency score. For example, the generated text of “John, born >> determinations can be made whether to cause the client
in San Antonio of 1942 Aug. 26, worked as a fighter pilot” device to render output based on the generated text. For
can be processed. using the fluency model portion of the example, the system can determine whether to render output
ALM to determine a fluency score. In some implementa- based on text with a corresponding ALM score of 25 which
tions, the fluency score of the sequence ty, .. . . ty is satisfies a threshold value of 20, to not render output based
normalized by the number of words M in the sequence. Lhe 60 on text with a corresponding ALM score of 25 which does
fluency score can be determined by: not satisfy a threshold value of 75, to render output based on

. three instances of text, each instance of text with a corre-
sponding ALM score of 25 which salisfies a threshold value
Ply ve stu) of 30, and/or to perform action(s) for an instance of text with
fueneyt.-.. tu) = 7 65 an additional and/or alternative ALM score(s).
FIG. 8 is a flowchart illustrating a process 800 of deter-
mining an AI.M score for multiple instances of text and

US 12,073,187 B2
11 12
selecting one or more instances of text based. on the deter- of text satisfies a threshold value and/or instance(s) of text
mined ALM score according to implementations disclosed with a corresponding ATM score satisfying additional and/
herein. For convenience, the operations of the flowchart are or alternative crileria.
described with reference to a system that performs opera- At block 812, the system generates one or more audio
tions. This system may include various components of 5 waveforms based on the one or more instances of text
various computer systems, such as one or more components selected at block 810. . ;
of client device 202 of FIG. 2. Moreover, while operations At block 814, the system Causes a client device to render
of process 800 are shown in a particular order, this is not OWtput based on the audio waveform. ;
meant lo be limiting. One or more operations may be Although process 800 of FIG. 8 is described with respect
: : 10. to rendering audio waveform(s) based on generated text, the
reordered, omitted, and/or added. . we ji : Lo
At block 802, the system receives a plurality of instances system can perform additional and/or alternative actions
° i P ° . based on the selected instance(s) of text including causing a
of text based on a set of structured dala, each instance ‘ . °
: ° : client device to render outpul based on the selected instance
generated by processing the set of structured data using @ (s) of text via a display, causing a networked device to
natural language generation model. In some implementa- 15 perform one or more actions based. on the selected. instance
tions, the instances of text can be generated by processing, (s) of Lext, etc.
the set of structured data using the same natural language ‘Turning to FIG. 9, an example environment in which
generation model. l’or example, the system can process the implementations disclosed herein can be implemented. FIG.
set of structured data multiple times using a natural language —_—_9 includes a client computing device 902, which executes an
gencration model to gencrate multiple instances of text 20 instance of an automated assistant client 904. One or more
based on the set of structure data. Additionally or alterna- cloud-based automated assistant components 910 can be
tively, the system can process the set of structured data using implemented on one or more computing systems (collec-
many distinct natural language gencration models, cach tively referred to as a “cloud” computing, system) that are
model being used in generating a distinct instance of gen- communicatively coupled to client device 902 via one or
erated text. Furthermore, instances of text can be generated 25 more local and/or wide area networks (¢.g., the Internet)
using many natural language generation models, where indicated generally al 908. , ,
some instances of text are generated using the same natural _An instance of an automated assistant client 904, by way
language generation model and other instances of text are of ils interactions with one or more cloud-based. automated
generaled using distinct natural language generation medels __ assistant components 910. may form what appears to be,
based on the same set of structured data. For example, the 30 from the user's perspective, a logical instance of an auto-
. - - . mated assistant 900 with which the user may engage in a
system can process a set of structured data using a first
; ‘ ee human-to-computer dialog. It thus should be understood that
natural language generation model to generale instance of : . : .
: in some implementations, a user that engages with an
text A, the set of structured data using the first natural — A "att me .

i" t . automated assistant client 904 executing on client device
language generation model to generate instance of text B, 55 992 may. in effect, engage with his or her own logical
the set of structured data using a second natural language instance of an automated assistant 900. For the sakes of
generation model to generate instance of text C, the set of brevity and simplicity, the term “automated. assistant” as
structured data using the second natural language generation used herein as “serving” a particular user will ofien refer to
model to generate instance of text D, and a third natural the combination of an automated assistant client 904 execut-
language generation model to generate instance of text E, 40 ing on a client device 902 operated by the user and one or
where instance of text A, B, C, D, and E are distinct = more cloud-based automated assistant components 910
instances of text. (which may be shared amongst multiple automated assistant

At block 804, the system selects an instance of text from clicnts of multiple client computing devices). It should also
the plurality of instances of text received at block 802. be understood that in some implementations, automated
At block 806, the system processes the selected instance 45 assistant 900 may respond to a request from any user
of text to determine a corresponding AI.M score. Tor regardless of whether the user is actually “served” by that
example, the system can determine a fluency score as well particular instance of automated assistant 900.
as a semantics score corresponding to the selected instance The client computing device 902 may be, for example: a
of text. Additionally or alternatively, the system can deter- desktop computing device, a lapiop computing device, a
mine an ALM score based on the determined fluency score 50 tablet compuling device, a mobile smartphone computing
and semantics score. Determining an ALM score corre- device, a standalone interactive speaker, a smart appliance,
sponding with an instance of text is described with respect and/or a wearable apparatus of the user that includes a
to process 700 of FIG. 7. computing device (¢.g.. a watch of the user having a
At block 808, the system determines whether any addi- computing device, glasses of the user having a computing
tional instance(s) of text in the plurality of instances of text 55 device, a virtual or augmented reality computing device).
are unscored. If so, the system proceeds back to block 804, Additional and/or alternative client computing devices may
selects an additional unscored instance of text before pro- be provided. Additionally or alternatively, operations of
ceeding to block 806 to determine an ALM score based on client computing device 902 may be distributed. between
the additional instance of text. If the system determines all multiple computing, devices. For example, one or more
instances of text in the plurality of instances of text have 60 operations of client compuling device 902 may be distrib-
been scored, the system proceeds to block 810. uled between a mobile smartphone and a vehicle computing
At block 810, the system selects one or more instances of device. Furthermore, operations of client computing device
text based on the corresponding ALM score. In many 902 may be repeated. between multiple computing devices
implementations, the system can select instance(s) of text (which in some cases may be communicatively coupled). As
satisfying one or more criteria. For example, the system can 65 a further example, a mobile smartphone as well as a vehicle
select the instance of text with the highest ALM score, the interface device may cach implement operations of auto-
instance of text with the lowest ATM score, the instance(s) mated assistant 900, such as a mobile smartphone and a

US 12,073,187 B2
13 14

vehicle interface device both including an invocation engine have limited functionality relative to any counterparts that
(described below). In various implementations. the client are included in cloud-based automated assistant components
computing device 902 may optionally operate one or more 910.
other applications that are in additional to automated assis- Cloud-based automated assistant components 910 lever-
tant cliont 904, such as a message oxchange client (¢.g., 5 age the virtually limitless resources of the cloud to perform
SMS, MMS, online chat), a browser, and so Jorth. In some more robust and/or more accurate processing of audio data,
of those various implementations, one or more of the other and/or other user interface input, relative to any counterparts
applications can optionally interface (e.g. via an application Of the local engine(s) 906, Again, in various implementa-
programming interface) with he automated assistant 904, or tions, the client device 902 can provide audio data and/or
: ane note - 10 other data to the cloud-based automated assistant compo-
include their own instance of an automated assistant appli- : i : : :

: : a nents 910 in response to the invocation engine detecting a
cation (that may also interface with the cloud-based. auto- : : . are

i . spoken invocation phrase, or detecting some other explicit
mated assistant component(s) 910). : a : ; eta
: : invocation of the automated. assistant 900.

. Automated assistant 900 engages 1n human-to-computer The illustrated cloud-based automated assisiant compo-
dialog SEss1Ons wilh a user via User interlace input and |; yents 910 include a cloud-based ‘TTS module 912, a cloud-
output devices of the client device (not pictured). To pre- based SIT module 914, and a natural language processor
serve user privacy and/or to conserve resources, in many 916. In some implementations, one or more of the engines
silualions a user must often explicitly invoke the automated and/or modules of automated assistant 900 may be omitted,
assistant 900 before the automated assistant will fully pro- combined, and/or implemented in a component that is sepa-
cess a spoken utterance. The explicit invocation of the 20 rate from automated assistant 900. Further, in some imple-
automated assistant 900 can occur in response to cerlain user mentations automated assistant 900 can include additional
interface input received at the client device 902. For and/or alternative engines and/or modules.
example, user interface inputs that can invoke the automated Cloud-based STT module 914 can convert audio data into
assistant 900 via the client device 902 can optionally include text, which may then be provided to natural language
actuations of a hardware and/or virtual button of the client 25 processor 916. In various implementations, the cloud-based
device 902. Moreover, the automated assistant client can STT module 914 can convert audio data into text based at
include one or more local engines 906, such as an invocation least in part on indications of speaker labels and assignments
engine that is operable to detect the presence of one or more thal are provided by an assignment engine (not illustrated).
spoken invocation phrases. The invocalion engine can __ Cloud-based TTS module 912 can convert textual data
invoke the automated assistant 900 in response to detection 30 (eg. natural language responses formulated by automated

- - main inant assistant 900) into computer-generated speech output. In
of one or more of the spoken invocation phrases. For . . *

: as er ; some implementations, TTS module 912 may provide the
example, the invocalion engine can invoke the automated . .
. : : : : computer-generated speech output to client device 902 to be
assistant 900 in response to detecting a spoken invocation . , _ . eres
“ . a . . ; output directly, e.g., using one or more speakers. In other
phrase such as Hey Assistant > “OK Assistant » and/or 5. implementations, textual data (e.g., natural language
“Assistant - The invocation engine can continuously process responses) generated by aulomated. assistant 900 may be
(e.g. if not in an “inactive” mode) a stream of audio data provided to one of the local engine(s) 906, which may then
frames that are based on output from one or more micro- convert the textual dala into computer-generaled. speech that
phones of the client device 902, to monitor for an occurrence is output locally.
of a spoken invocation phrase. While monitoring for the 49 Natural language processor 916 of automated assistant
occurrence of the spoken invocation phrase, the invocation 900 processes free form natural language input and gener-
engine discards (e.g., after temporary storage in a buffer) any ates. based on the natural language input. annotated output
audio data frames that do not include the spoken invocation for use by one or more other components of the automated
phrase. However, when the invocation engine detects an assistant 900. For example, the natural language processor
occurrence of a spoken invocation phrase in processed audio 45 916 can process natural language free-form input that is
data frames, the invocation engine can invoke the automated textual input that is a conversion, by STT module 914, of
assistant 900. As used herein, “invoking” the automated audio data provided by a user via client device 902. The
assistant 900 can include causing one or more previously generated. annotated oulpul may include one or more anno-
inactive functions of the aulomated assistant 900 lo be tations of the natural language input and. optionally one or
activated. For example, invoking the aulomaled assistant 50 more (¢.g,, all) of the terms of the natural language input. In
900 can include causing one or more local engines 906 some implementations, the natural language processor 916
and/or cloud-based automated assistant components 910 to is configured to identify and annotate various types of
further process audio data frames based on which the grammatical information in natural language input. For
invocation phrase was detected, and/or one or more follow- example, the natural language processor 916 may include a
ing audio data frames (whereas prior to invoking no further 55 part of speech tagger (not depicted) configured to annotate
processing of audio data frames was occurring). terms with their grammatical reles. Also, for example, in
The one or more local engine(s) 906 of automated assis- some implementations the natural language processor 916
tant 904 can include, for example, the invocation engine may additionally and/or allernatively include a dependency
described above, a local speech-to-text (‘STT”) engine (that parser (not depicted) configured to determine syntactic rela-
converts captured audio to text), a local text-to-speech 60 tionships between terms in natural language inpul.
(“TTS”) engine (that converts text to speech), a local natural In some implementations, the natural language processor
language processor (that determines semantic meaning of 916 may additionally and/or alternatively include an entity
audio and/or text converted Irom audio), an ALM engine tagger (not depicted) configured to annolale entity refer-
(such as APE engine 204 in FIG. 2), and/or other local ences in one or more samples such as references to people
components. Because the client device 902 is relatively 65 (including, for instance, literary characters, celebrities, pub-
constrained in terms of computing resources (c.g., processor lic figures, etc.), organizations, locations (real and imagi-
cycles, memory, battery, etc.), the local engines 906 may nary), and so forth. The entity tagger of the natural language

US 12,073,187 B2
15 16

processor 916 may annolale references to an entily al a high “outpul device” is intended te include all pessible types of
level of granularity (e.g., to enable identification of all devices and ways to output information from computing
references lo an entity class such as people) and/or a lower device 1010 to the user or to another machine or computing
level of granularity (e.g., to enable identification of all device.

references to a particular entity such as a particular person). 5 Storage subsystem 1024 stores programming and data
The entity tagger may rely on content ofthe natural language constructs that provide the functionality of some or all ofthe
input to resolve a particular entity and/or may optionally modules described herein. For example, the storage subsys-
communicate with a knowledge graph or other entity data- tem 1024 may include the logic to perform selected aspects
base to resolve a particular entity. of one or more of the processes of FIG. 6, FIG. 7, and/or

In some implementations, the natural language processor 10 FIG. 8, as well as to implement various components
916 may additionally and/or alternatively include a coref- depicted in PIG. 2 and/or PIG. 9.
erence resolver (not depicted) configured to group, or “clus- These software modules are generally executed by pro-
ter,” references to the same enltily based. on one or more cessor 1014 alone or in combination with other processors.
contextual cues. Por example, the coreference resolver may Memery 1025 used in the storage subsystem 1024 can
be utilized to resolve the term “there” to “Hypothetical 15 include a number of memories including a main random
Calé” in the natural language input “I liked Llypothetical access memory (“RAM”) 1030 lor storage of instructions
Café last time we ate there.” and data during program execution and a read only memory

In some implementations, one or more components of the (“ROM”) 1032 in which fixed instructions are stored. A file
natural language processor 916 may rely on annotations storage subsystem 1026 can provide persistent storage for
from one or more other components of the natural language 20 programs and data files, and may include a hard disk drive,
processor 916. For example, in some implementations the a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media,
named entity tagger may rely on annotations from the a CD-ROM drive, an optical drive, or removable media
coreference resolver and/or dependency parser in annotating, cartridges. The modules implementing, the functionality of
all mentions to a particular entity. Also, for example, in some certain implementations may be stored by file storage sub-
implementations the corelerence resolver may rely on anno- 25 system 1026 in the storage subsystem 1024, or in other
talions from the dependency parser in clustering references machines accessible by the processor(s) 1014.
to the same entity. In some implementations, in processing Bus subsystem 1012 provides a mechanism for letting the
a particular natural language inpul, one or more components various components and subsystems of computing device
of the natural language processor 916 may use related prior 1010 communicate with cach other as intended. Although
input and/or other related data outside of the particular 30 bus subsystem 1012 is shown schematically as a single bus,
natural language input to determine one or more annota- alternative implementations of the bus subsystem may use
tions. multiple busses.

FIG. 10 is a block diagram of an example computing Computing device 1010 can be of varying types including
device 1010 that may optionally be utilized to perform one a workstation, server, computing cluster, blade server, server
or more aspects of techniques described herein. In some 35 farm, or any other data processing system or computing
implementations, one or more of a client computing device, device. Due to the ever-changing nature of computers and
and/or other component(s) may comprise one or more networks, the description of computing device 1010
components of the example computing device 1010. depicted in 1G. 10 is intended only as a specific example lor

Computing device 1010 typically includes at least one purposes of illustrating some implementations. Many other
processor 1014 which communicates with a number of 40 configurations of computing device 1010 are possible hav-
peripheral devices via bus subsystem 1012. These peripheral ing more or fewer components than the computing device
devices may include a storage subsystem 1024, including, depicted in FIG. 10.
for example, a memory subsystem 1025 and a file storage In situations in which the systems described herein collect
subsystem 1026, user interface output devices 1020, user personal information about users (or as often referred to
interface input devices 1022. and a network interface sub- 45 herein, “participants”), or may make use of personal infor-
system 1016. The input and output devices allow user mation, the users may be provided with an opportunity to
interaction with computing device 1010. Network interface control whether programs or features collect user informa-
subsystem 1016 provides an interface to outside networks tion (e.g., information aboul a user’s social network, social
and is coupled to corresponding interface devices im other aclions or aclivilies, profession, a user’s preferences, or a
compuling devices. $0 user’s current geographic location), or to control whether

User interface input devices 1022 may include a key- and/or how to receive content from the content server that
board, pointing devices such as a mouse, trackball, touch- may be more relevant to the user. Also, certain data may be
pad, or graphics tablet, a scanner, a touchsercen incorporated treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used, so that
into the display, audio input devices such as voice recogni- personal identifiable information is removed. For example,
tion systems, microphones, and/or other types of input 55 a user’s identity may be treated so that no personal identi-
devices. In general, use of the term “input device” is fiable information can be determined tor the user, or a user’s
intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to geographic location may be generalized where geographic
input information into compuling device 1010 or onto a location information is obtained (such as to a city, ZIP code,
communication network. or state level), so that a particular geographic location of a

User interface oulpul devices 1020 may include a display 60 user cannot be determined. hus, the user may have control
subsyslem, a printer, 4 fax machine, or non-visual displays ever how information is collected about the user and/or
such as audio output devices. [he display subsystem may used.
include a cathode ray tube (“CRIT”), a Mat-panel device such In various implementations, a method implemented by
as a liquid crystal display (“LCD”), a projection device, or one or more processors is is provided that includes receiving
some other mechanism for creating a visible image. The 65 an instance of natural language text gencrated by processing
display subsystem may also provide non-visual display such a set of structured data using a natural language generation
as via audio output devices. In general, use of the term model. The method further includes processing the instance

US 12,073,187 B2
17 18

of natural language text and the set of structured data using the additional conditional probability. In some versions of
an alignments and language model (AI.M) to automatically those implementations, determining the semantics score
generale an ALM score. Processing the instance of natural based on the conditional probability and the additional
language text and the set of structured data using the ALM conditional probability inclides determining the semantics
includes processing the instance of natural language text 5 score by weighing the conditional probability and the addi-
using a fluency model portion of the ALM to generate a tional conditional probability using corresponding weights,
fluency score, wherein the fluency score is an evaluation of for the conditional probability and the additional conditional
the fluency and the grammar of the instance of natural probability, that are specific to a natural language generation
language text. The method further includes processing the task for which the instance of natural language text is
instance of natural language text and the set of structured 10 generated.
data using a semantics model portion of the AI.M to generate In various implementations, determining the AT.M score
a semantics score, wherein the semantics score evaluates the based on the fluency score and the semantics score includes
content of the inslance of natural language text based on the determining the ALM score by weighing the Muency score
corresponding set of structured data. The method. furiher and Ube semantics score.
includes determining the ALM score based on the fluency 15 — In various implementations, the method [urther includes
score and the semantics score. ‘The method further includes receiving a plurality of additional instances of natural lan-
causing a client device to perform one or more actions based guage text that are based on the set of structured data,
on the instance of natural language text and based on the wherein cach of the additional instances of natural language
ALM score. text is generated by processing the set of structured data

These and other implementations of the technology dis- 20 using a corresponding distinct natural language generation
closed herein can include one or more of the following model, of a plurality of disparate natural language genera-
features. tion models. In some versions of those implementations, the

In various implementations, causing the client device to method further includes processing each of the plurality of
perform the one or more actions based on the instance of additional instances of natural language text, using the
natural language text and based on the ALM score includes 25 ALM, to generate a plurality of corresponding ALM scores,
determining whether the ALM score satisfies a threshold each of the plurality of corresponding ALM scores generated
value. In various implementations, in response to determin- based on processing a corresponding one of the instances of
ing the ALM score satisfies the threshold value, the method nalural language text, and corresponding lo the processed
further includes generating an audio waveform based on the corresponding one of the instances of natural language text.
instance of natural language text. In various implementa- 30 In some versions of those implementations, causing the
tions, the method further includes causing the client device client device to perform the one or more actions based on the
to render the audio waveform. instance of natural language text and based on the A.M

In various implementations, causing the client device to score further includes selecting the instance of natural
perform the one or more actions based on the instance of language text, in lieu of any of the additional instances of
natural language text and based on the AIM score includes 35 natural language text, based on the AI.M score for the
determining whether the ALM score satisfies a threshold instance of natural language of text and based on the
value. In various implementations, in response to determin- corresponding ALM scores for the additional instances of
ing the ALM score satisfies the threshold value, the method natural language lex. In some versions of those implemen-
further includes determining one or more device actions of tations, selecting the instance of natural language text, in
a device associated with the client device. In various imple- 40 lieu of any of the additional instances of natural language
mentations, the method further includes causing the client text, based on the ALM score for the instance of natural
device to perform the one or more device actions. language of text and based on the corresponding ALM

In various implementations, the fluency model portion of scores for the additional instances of natural language text,
the AI.M is an n-gram language model. includes determining that the AI.M score corresponding

In various implementations, the fluency model portion of 45 with the instance of natural language text satisfies a thresh-
the AIM is trained using a training, set of unlabeled training old value. In various implementations, in response to deter-
data, wherein the training set of unlabeled training data mining, the AIM score corresponding with the instance of
corresponds to a task of the natural language generation natural language lexl satisfies the threshold. value, selecting
model. In some versions of those implementations, the the instance of natural language text. In some versions of
semanlics model portion of the ALM is tained using the 50 those implementations, selecting the instance of natural
training sct of unlabeled training data. In some versions of language text, in licu of any of the additional instances of
those implementations. the the semantics model portion of natural language text, based on the ALM score for the
the ALM is trained using the training sct of unlabeled instance of natural language of text and based on the
training data as well as structured data corresponding to cach corresponding ALM scores for the additional instances of
instance of unlabeled training data. 55 natural language text, includes determining that the ALM

In various implementations, processing the instance of score corresponding with the instance of natural language
natural language text and the set of structured data using the text is greater than the corresponding AIM scores for any of
semantics model portion of he ALM to generate the seman- the additional instances of natural language text. In various
tics score includes determining a conditional probability implementations, the method further includes selecting the
indicating a likelihood that the instance of natural language 60 instance of natural language text based on determining that
lext was generated using the sel of structured data. In various the ALM score corresponding with the instance of natural
implementations, the method further includes determining language text is greater than the corresponding ALM scores
an additional conditional probability indicating an additional for any of the additional instances of natural language text.
likelihood that all information in the sct of structured data is In various implementations, a method implemented by
aligned with the instance of natural language text. In various 65 one or more processors is provided that includes reeciving a
implementations, the method further includes determining plurality of instances of natural language text based on a set
the semantics score based on the conditional probability and of structured data, wherein each instance of natural language

US 12,073,187 B2
19 20
text is generated by processing the set of structured data What is claimed is:
using at least one natural language generation model. The 1. A method implemented by one or more processors, the
method further includes processing the plurality of instances method. comprising:
of natural language text using an alignments and language receiving an instance of natural language text generated
model (ALM) to automatically generate a plurality of cor- 3 by processing a set of structured data using a natural
responding ALM scores, wherein processing each instance language generation model;
of natural language text using the AT.M includes processing, processing, the instance ot natural Janguage text and the
the instance of natural language text using a fluency model set of structured data using an alignments and language
portion of the ALM to generale a fluency score, wherein the model (ALM) toa utomatically generate an ALM score,
fluency score is an evaluation of the fluency and the oram- wherein processing the instance of natural language
¥ : Cy ane S text and the set of structured data using the A.M
mar of the instance of natural language text. ‘he method _
: : . comprises:
further includes processing the instance of natural language ceed re carat Te . ae
: : processing the instance of natural language text using a
text and the set of structured data using a semantics model fluency model portion of the ALM lo generate a
portion of the ALM to generate a semantics score, wherein |; fluency score, wherein the fluency score is an evalu-
the semantics score evaluates the content of the instance of ation of the fluency and the grammar of the instance
natural language text based on the corresponding set of of natural language text;
structured data. ‘The method Lurther includes determining the processing the instance of natural language text and the
corresponding AT.M score based on the fluency score and sct of structured data using a semantics madel por-
the semantics score. The method further includes selecting 3) tion of the ALM to generate a semantics score,
one or more instances of natural language text from the wherein the semantics score evaluates the content of
plurality of instances of natural language text based on the the instance of natural language text based on the
corresponding AI.M scores. For each of the one or more corresponding set of structured data:
selected instances of natural language text, the method determining the AT.M score based on the fluency score
further includes determining a corresponding audio wave- 25 and the semantics score;
form based on the instance of natural language. The method causing a client device to perform one or more actions
further includes causing a client device to render output based on the instance of natural language text and
based on each of the corresponding audio waveforms cor- based on the ALM score; and
responding to the one or more selected instances of natural receiving a plurality of additional instances of natural
language text. 30 language text that are based on the set of structured
In various implementations, a method implemented by data, wherein cach ofthe additional instances of natural
one or more processors is provided that includes receiving a language text is generated by processing, the set of
plurality of automatically generated training instances of structured data using a corresponding distinct natural
unlabeled training data. For each instance of unlabeled language generation model, of a plurality of disparate
training, data, the method further includes processing the 35 natural language generation models.
unlabeled training data using a Muency model portion of an 2. The method. of claim 1, wherein causing the client
alignments and language model (ALM) to update the fu- device to perform the ene or more actions based on the
ency model portion of the ALM, wherein the ALM, when instance of natural language text and based. on the ALM
trained, is used in generating an ALM score by processing score comprises:
an instance of natural language text, wherein the fluency 40 determining whether the ALM score satisties a threshold
model portion of the ALM, when trained, is used in gener- value;
ating a fluency score by processing the instance of the in response to determining the ALM score satistics the
natural language text, and wherein the fluency score is an threshold value,
evaluation of the fluency and the grammar of the instance of generating an audio waveform based on the instance of
natural language text. The method further includes process- 45 natural language text: and
ing, the unlabeled training data using a semantics model causing, the client device to render the audio waveform.
portion of the ATM to update the semantics model portion 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the fluency model
of the ALM, wherein the semantics model portion of the portion of the ALM is an n-gram language model.
ALM, when trained, is used in generating a semantics score 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the fluency model
by processing the instance of the natural language text, 50 portion of the ALM is tained using a taining set of
wherein the semantics score is an evaluation of the content unlabeled training data, whercin the training set of unlabeled
of the natural language text based on a corresponding set of training data corresponds to a task of the natural language
structured data, and wherein the natural language text is generation model.
generated by processing the sct of structured data using a 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the semantics model
natural language generation model. 55 portion of the ALM is trained using the training set of
In addition, some implementations include one or more unlabeled training data.
processors (e.g., central processing unit(s) (CPU(s)), graph- 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the semantics model
ics processing unil(s) (GPU(s), and/or tensor processing pertion of the ALM is trained using the training set of
unit(s) (TPU(s)) of one or more computing, devices, where unlabeled training data as well as structured data corre-
the one or more processors are operable to execule insiruc- 60 sponding to each instance of unlabeled training data.
Gions stored in associated memory, and where the instruc- 7. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the instance
tions are configured to cause performance of any of the of natural language text and the set of structured data using
methods described herein. Some implementations also the semantics model portion of the ALM to generate the
include one or more transitory or non-transitory computer scmantics score comprises:
readable storage media storing computer instructions 65 determining a conditional probability indicating a likeli-
executable by one or more processors to perform any of the hood that the instance of natural language text was
methods described herein. generated using the set of structured data:

US 12,073,187 B2
21 22
determining an additional conditional probability indicat- corresponding ALM scores for any of the additional
ing an additional likelihood that all information in the instances of natural language text.
set of structured. data is aligned with the instance of 14. A method implemented by one or more processors, the
natural language text; and method comprising:

determining the semantics score based on the conditional 5 receiving a plurality of instances of natural language text

probability and the additional conditional probability. based on a sel of structured. data, wherein each instance

8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining the of natural language text is generated by processing the
semantics score based on the conditional probability and the set of structured data using at least one natural language
additional conditional probability comprises: , generation model;

determining the semantics score by weighing the condi- 0 processing the plurality of instances of natural language

tional probability and the additional conditional prob- text using an alignments and language model (ALM) to
ability using corresponding weights, for the conditional automatically generale a plurality of corresponding
probability and the additional conditional probability, ALM scores, wherein processing each instance of natu-
that are specific to a natural language generation task |; ral language text using the ALM comprises:

for which the instance of natural language text is processing the instance of natural language text using a
generated. fluency model portion of the ALM to generate a

9. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the ALM fluency score, wherein the Muency score is an evalu-
score based on the fluency score and the semantics score ation of the fluency and the grammar of the instance
comprises: 20 of natural language text;

determining the ALM score by weighing the fluency score processing the instance of natural language text and. the

and the semantics score. set of structured data using a semantics model por-

10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: tion of the AI.M to generate a semantics score,

processing each of the plurality of additional instances of wherein the semantics score evaluates the content of

natural language text, using the ALM, lo generale a 25 the instance of natural language text based on the
plurality of corresponding ALM scores, each of the corresponding set of structured data:

plurality of corresponding ALM scores generated based. determining the corresponding ALM score based on the
on processing u corresponding one of the instances of fluency score and the semantics score;

natural language text, and corresponding to the pro- selecting onc or more instances of natural language text
cessed corresponding one of the instances of natural 30 from the plurality of instances of natural language text
language text. based on the corresponding ALM scores:

11. The method of claim 10, wherein causing the client for each of the one or more selected instances of natural
device to perform the one or more actions based on the language text, determining a corresponding audio
instance of natural language text and based on the Al.M waveform based on the instance of natural language
score further comprises: 35 text; and

selecting the instance of natural language text, in lieu of causing a client device to render output based on each of

any of the additional instances of natural language text, the corresponding audio wavelorms corresponding to
based on the ALM score for the instance of natural the one or more selected instances of natural language
language of text and based on the corresponding ALM text.

scores for the additional instances of natural language 40 15. ‘The method of claim 14, wherein the fluency model
text. portion of the ALM is an n-gram language model.

12. The method of claim 11, wherein selecting the 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the fluency model
instance of natural language text, in licu of any of the portion of the ALM is trained using a training set of
additional instances of natural language text, based on the unlabeled training data, wherein the training set of unlabeled
ALM score for the instance of natural language of text and 45 training data corresponds to a task of the natural language
based on the corresponding AI.M scores for the additional generation model.
instances of natural language text, comprises: 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the semantics model

determining that the ALM score corresponding, with the pertion of the ALM is trained using the training set of

instance of natural language text satisfies a threshold unlabeled training data.

value; and 50 18. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the
in response to determining the ALM score corresponding corresponding ALM score based on the fluency score and

with the instance of natural language text satisfies the the semantics score comprises:

threshold value, selecting the instance of natural lan- determining the corresponding ALM score by weighing

guage text. the fluency score and the semantics score.

13. The method of claim 11, wherein selecting the 55 19. The method of claim 14, wherein processing the
instance of natural language text, in licu of any of the jnostance of natural language text and the set of structured
additional instances of natural language text, based on the data using the semantics model portion of the AI.M to
ALM score for the instance of natural language of text and generale the semantics score comprises:
based on the corresponding AI.M scores for the additional determining, a conditional probability indicating a likeli-
instances of natural language lext, comprises: 60 hood. that the instance of natural language text was

determining that the ALM score corresponding, with the generaled. using the set of structured data;

instance of natural language text is greater than the determining an additional conditional probability indicat-

corresponding ALM scores lor any of the additional ing an additional likelihood. that all information in the

instances of natural language text; and set of structured data is aligned with the instance of
selecting the instance of natural language text based on 65 natural language text; and

determining that the ALM score corresponding with the determining the semantics score based on the conditional

instance of natural language text is greater than the probability and the additional conditional probability.

US 12,073,187 B2
23 24
20. A system comprising: process the instance of natural language text and. the
memory storing instructions; set of structured data using a semantics model
one or more processors thal execute the instructions, portion of the ALM to generale a semantics score,
stored in the memory, to: wherein the semantics score evaluates the content
reecive a plurality of instances of natural language text 5 of the instance of natural language text based on
based on a set of structured data, wherein each the COrresp onding sct ot structured data, ;
: : determine the corresponding ALM score based on
instance of natural language text is generated by the fluency score and the semantics score:
processing the set of structured data using at least select one or more instances of natural language text
one nalural language generation model; , from the plurality of instances of natural language
process the plurality of instances of natural language "0 text based on the corresponding ALM scores;
text using an alignments and language model (ALM) for each of the one or more selected instances of natural
to automatically generate a plurality of correspond- language text, determine a corresponding audio
ing AI.M scores, wherein processing, each instance waveform based on the instance of natural language
of natural language text using the ALM comprises: |; text; and .
process the instance of natural language text using a cause a client device to render output based on each of
fluency model portion of the ALM to generate a the corresponding audio waveforms corresponding
fluency score, wherein the fluency score is an to the one or more selected instances of natural
evaluation of the fluency and the grammar of the language text.
instance of natural language text; + oF Re