US 20250103826A1
as) United States
a2) Patent Application Publication (10) Pub. No.: US 2025/0103826 Al
Dicklin et al. (43) Pub. Date: Mar. 27, 2025
(54) PROCESSING DOCUMENTS IN CLOUD GO6F 16/93 (2019.01)
STORAGE USING QUERY EMBEDDINGS GO6N 20/00 (2019.01)
(52) U.S. CL
(71) Applicant: Google LLC, Mountain View, CA (US) CPC wa. GO6E 40/40 (2020.01), G06F 169032
cane a (2019.01); GO6L’ 16/906 (2019.01); GO6F
(72) Inventors: Zachary Dicklin, Boulder, CO (US); 16/93 (2019.01); GOGN 20/00 (2019.01)
Michael Colagrosso, Arvada, CO (US);
Remy Burger, Boulder, CO (US); (37) ABSTRACT
Michael Bendersky, Cupertino, CA Systems and methods include pre-processing documents in
(US); Brandon Vargo, Boulder, CO cloud. storage using query embeddings, providing personal-
(US) ized promp!ts to users based on documents in cloud storage,
real-time anticipation of user interest in information con-
(21) Appl. No.: 18/472,156 tained in documents in cloud storage, and providing gen-
erative answers including citation to source documents in
(22) Filed: Sep. 21, 2023 cloud storage. The system and methods generate generative
machine learning model (MLM) prompts based on docu-
Publication Classification ment portions of documents in a cloud-based content man-
_ agement platform. The systems and methods use the gen-
(51) Int. Cl. erative MI.M to generate responses to prompts, and the
G06 40/40 (2020.01) responses include citations to the document portions used to
GO6F 16/9032 (2019.01) generate the responses in order for users to verify the
GO6F 16/906 (2019.01) responses.
A 300
a02-1
| (Fram Wisekly Notes, Pre: act Plan, end Email fom smith: » ~ 808 1
i | The project is currently in the development phase and is on track
| | to be completed in the next 3 months. 804-4
| Some recent changes include: '
I ~ The addition of a new feature that allows users to B08
' | update their contact information 306
i ! -The addition of a new feature that allews users te work
i | offline and synchronize their changes with the cloudl when they
| i are back online.
| i The project team received appicval from John Smith io move ic
i | Sub-phase 4 of the development phase. i
i 802-2
we From Project Plan and Sub-phage 4 Plan ~é--——— 898 804-2 i
| Sub-phase 4 includes the following tasks:
| - Add features related to imparting soresdsheeis
i - Add features related to bulk updating user profiles. i
i - Uli tesiing of features adced in sub-phase 3.

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 1 of 15 US 2025/0103826 Al
100
Cloud Conterd Management System 1410
Document Pre- Realtime Anticipation |
| | processing Subsystern | Subsystem _ os
| | 412 446 Generative |
tf . fo Machine
| Learning Model | |
| Personalized Prompt Generative Response 20
Subsystem Subsystem
| Cloud Storage
i wl Server
5 Computer Network ‘ .
( 450 :
a Oe - ae ,| Cloud Storage
,. Ay “ Server
& a Se 330-0
| Client Client | ,
FIG. 1

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 2 of 15 US 2025/0103826 Al
200
| Select a portion of a cacument stored In a cloud-based |
management platiorm
i input a set of exampie statement-prompt pairs and the |
portion of the document into 4 generative MLM
i Obtain generative MLM prompt associated with the |
portion of the document
Generate, using an embedding model, a query
embedding based on the generative MLM prompt
| Store an association of the query embedding with the
| portion of the docurnent for subsequent use by the |
generative MLM

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 3 of 15 US 2025/0103826 Al
300
316
Select a document stored in a cloud-based management
olatform
320
For each document partion of the document:
322
input a set of example statement-prompt
pairs into a generative MLM
Generate, using the generative MLM, a
generative MLM prompt associated with the
document portion
Generate, using an embedding modei, a
query embedcing based on the generative
MLM prompt
Store an association of the query
embedding with the portion of the
document for subsequent use by the
generative MLM

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 4 of 15 US 2025/0103826 Al
400
| Select a portion of a cacument stored In a cloud-based |
management platiorm
| Generate, using a generative MLM, a generative MLM |
i prompt associated with the portion of ine document |
Generate, using an embedding model, a query |
embedding based on the generative MLM prompt
| Store an association of the query embedding with the |
i portion of the document for subsequent use by the |
generative MLM
FIG

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 5 of 15 US 2025/0103826 Al
500
i Obtain a generative MLM prompt from a user interface |
520
| Generate, using an embedding model, a first query
embedding based on the generative MLM prompt
| Select, from multiple documents stored on a cloud-
| based content managemeni platform, a subset ofthe |
multiple documenis
| Input the generative MLM prompt and the subset of the |
multiple documents into a generative MLM
| Generate, using the generative MLM, a generative MLM |
response

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 6 of 15 US 2025/0103826 Al
6090
Obtain a generative MLM prompt from a user interface
i input the generative MLM prompt and one or more |
| documents into a generative MLM
i Generate, using the generative MLM, a generative MLM |
response
Generate, using an ernbedding model, a query
i embedding based on the generative MLM response |
i Select a subset of the ane or more documents portions |
of the one or more documents where the query
embecding of each document portion is within a
predetermined threshold similarity from ihe query
embedding of the response
| Include one or more citations to one or more document |
portions of the subset
FIG.

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 7 of 15 US 2025/0103826 Al
700
| Generate, using an embedding model, a first query |
embedding based on a generative MLM prompt
i Select, from multiple documents stored on acioud- |
| based content management platform, a first subset of |
multiple documents
| 730 |
i Select, from the subset of documents, a second subset |
i based on an access permission of each document in the |
first subset
i Input the generative MLM prompt and ihe second subset |
i of the one or more documents into a generative MLM |
| Generate, using the generative MLM, a generative MLM |
response

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 8 of 15 US 2025/0103826 Al
a 800
| Vhal has changed on Project X in the last week? |
eds {From Weekly Notes, Project Plan, and Email from ismith: ~ “S 80g
| my gam | The project is currently in the development phase and is on track | i
; £4 | to be completed in the next 3 months. L- 804-1 i
| Some recent changes include: fy |
i i - The addition of a new feature that allows users to al 806 i
| | update their contact information. ~ | " |
i i -The adelition of a new feature that allows users to work | i
i | offine and synchrorize their changes with the cloud when they | i
The project ieam received approval fram John Smith ta move to |
i | sub-phase 4 of ihe development phase. i
| Summarize sub-phase 4 of the development phase.
From Project Pian and Sub-phase 4 Plan) ~#——--—~ 808 L- 804-2
Sub-phiase 4 includes the following tasks:
i + Ade features related fo importing spreadsheets. i
i - Add features related to bulk updating user profiles. i
i ~ Unit testing of features added in sub-phase 3.0 i
|

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 9 of 15 US 2025/0103826 Al
200
| Select multiple documents stored inacloud-based |
conient management platiorm
Select a portion of a document of the multiple
documents
| Generate, using a generative MLN, a first generative |
MLM prompt based on the portion of the document |
| Associate the first generative MLM prompt with the |
portion of the document
| Cause the first generative MLM prompt to be presented |
to one or more users of the platform
FIG

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 10 of 1S = US 2025/0103826 Al

A 1600
i (in the fast week? ‘| : i
ce
Document Name Owner Last Nodified
| | Sales Report 7 jsmith189 2023-01-07 | |
Project Notes miopez 2023-04-12
Develooment Chart miopez 2023-01-12 |

FIG. 1

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 11 of 15 US 2025/0103826 Al
1700
| 4110 |
identifying an action of a user of a cloud-based content
management platform with respect to content of one or
more first documents in a plurality of documents
| Predict user interest in content of one or more second |
| docurnenis in the plurality of documenis:
1122
| Select, based on a selection criterion, the one |
| or more second documents |
{124
Select, based on the action of the user, a
partion of a dacument
4126
Generate, using a generative MLM, a first
generative MLM prompt based on the portion
of the document
| 1130 |
| Cause the first generative MLM prompt to be presented |
to the user in relation to the action of the user

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 12 of 1S US 2025/0103826 Al

1200
4210

Receive, al a user interface of a client device, an action

of a user of a cloud-based content management platform
1226

Send, over a computer network, data identifying the
action of the user to the cloud-based content
management platform

7238

Receive, over the computer network, a generative MLM

prompt from the olatform

41246

Presenting, on the user interface, a selectable option to

send ihe generative MLM prompi to the platform

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 13 of 1S US 2025/0103826 Al

a 1300
i (the website? ; .
| Document Name Owner LastModified |
| | Sales Report 7 jsmith189 2023-01-07 | |
Project Notes miopez 2023-01-12
Develooment Chart miopez 2023-01-12 |

IG. 1

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 14 of 1S US 2025/0103826 Al

A 1300
Document Name = £308 Owner Last Modified
Fannin Open on it oo ae
| | Project Notes O12 |
Development Chart Download B-O41-12
share |
i we Summarize this document ; i
| we Show me ail related files «

Patent Application Publication Mar. 27,2025 Sheet 15 of 1S US 2025/0103826 Al
te
PROCESSING | |
EMCEE | Wo pisptay |
PROCESSING VY] 1422 | UNIT
| oe renee
A ey ar
VOLATILE | | |
MEMORY | td _| ALPHA-NUMERIC |
Visa 4406 || INPUT DEVICE
~ 1406 el
NON-VOLATILE | | le eR
| DEVICE
. ; §
108 | ya
NETWORK | DATA STORAGE DEVICE
INTERFACE ba ms |
pevice | | | COMPUTER-READABLE| | ayo
Aye isis
NETWORK | SIGNAL |
\ Lg gel GENERATION |
a} DEVICE
FIG. 14

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
1
PROCESSING DOCUMENTS IN CLOUD [0005] In one embodiment, systems and methods for pro-
STORAGE USING QUERY EMBEDDINGS cessing documents in cloud storage for query embeddings
may include selecting a portion of a document stored in a
‘TECHNICAL FIELD cloud-based content management platform, inputting a set of
. . . . example statement-prompt pairs and the selected portion of
[0001] Aspects and implementations of the present disclo- pes pent-prompr Pe , s Selected’ POTION ¢
. the document into a generative MIM, obtaining an output
sure relate to a cloud-based content management platform, . te
. . from the generative MLM (which includes a generative
and more specifically, to processing documents at the cloud- s . . : .
. : MLM prompt), generating query embeddings based on the
based content management platform using query embed- a ° . ; nanan erene
dings generative MLM prompl, and storing an association of the
- query embeddings with the selected document portion for
BACKGROUND subsequent use by the generative MLM to provide informa-
tion related to content of the documents to user of the
[0002] During online collaboration, uscrs utilize various cloud-based management plattorm.
collaborative tools provided by a cloud-based content man- [0006] Systems and methods for providing personalized
agement platform over a computer network to work prompts based on documents in cloud storage may include
together. The collaborative tools can include document selecting multiple documents stored in the cloud-based
applications (e.g., word processor, presentation, and spread- content management platform based on a selection criterion,
sheet applications), a cloud-based document storage service, selecting a portion of a document of the multiple documents,
an online calendar service, an email service, or a messenger. generating a first generative MLM prompt based on the
‘The collaborative tools allow users to, over the network, document portion using a generative MLM, associating the
share, edit, and comment on documents, schedule project first generative MLM prompt with the document portion,
timelines, communicate over emails or messenger messages, and causing the first generative MLM prompt to be pre-
etc. With conventional collaborative tools. information a sented to one or more users of the cloud-based content
user needs to make a decision or take action may be found management platform when the one or more users access the
in disparate sources, often in documents in different loca- cloud-based management plattorm.
tions, of different formats, and with different access permis- [0007] In some embodiments, systems and methods for
sions. A user may spend a significant amount of time real-time anticipation of user interest in documents in cloud
gathering the information from the disparate sources when storage may include identifying an action of a user of a
the user needs such information to make a decision or lake cloud-based content management platform with respect to
action. content of one or more first documents stored at the platform
and predicting user interest in content of one or more second
SUMMARY decuments stored al the platform. Predicting user interest
[0003] The following, is a simplified summary of the may include selecting, based ona selection criterion, the one
: 2 : : or more second documents, selecting a portion of the one or
disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some : .
. : : . : more sccond documents based on the action of the user, and
aspects of the disclosure. This summary is nol an extensive : - . i
: nares . : . generating a generative MLM prompt using a generative
overview of the disclosure. It is not intended to either
. oo. we ~ . MLM based on the decument portion. The systems and
identify key or critical elements of the disclosure, nor . : a
emt : . : : : methods include causing the generative MI.M prompt to be
delineate any scope of the particular implementations of the . : :
: “ 3 : : presented to the user in relation to the action of the user.
disclosure or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to . <4: .
. . . err rnan [0008] Systems and methods for providing generative
present some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form ; include obtaining tive MLM
as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented answers May inclines oblalung a generative promp
later from a user interface, generating a first query embedding
: : . based on the generative MI.M prompt using an embeddin
[0004] Systems and methods are disclosed for processing, . & cates promp e - cone
: : : model, selecting a subset of multiple documents stored in the
documents in cloud storage for query embeddings, provid- _ . . |
: : : . “ cloud-based content management platform based en the first
ing personalized generative machine learning model (MLM) . a on .
: query embedding and the generative MLM prompt, inpul-
prompts to users based on documents in cloud storage, : ae | ee .
: or ~ : a . ting the generative MLM prompt and the subset of docu-
real-time anticipation of user interest in information con- + _ :
: : . va: ments into a generative MLM, and. generating a response
tained in documents in cloud storage, and providing gen- " iF 1 waynes wasay te
. : nae : using the generalive MLM. ‘The response may include one or
erative answers that include citations to source documents in ee . .
. . more citations to one or more of the documents in the subset
cloud storage. Processing the documents for query embed- °
= : of documents.
dings helps gather cloud storage documents together that are
similar to each other and similar to generative MLM BRIE DESCRIPTION OF TIT: DRAWINGS
prompts submitted by a user. Providing personalized
prompts helps preemptively generate generative MI.M [0009] Aspects and implementations of the present disclo-
prompts based on recent user activity on the cloud-based sure will be understood more fully from the detailed descrip-
content management platform. Real-time anticipation of tion given below and from the accompanying drawings of
user interest helps generate generalive MLM prompts based various aspects and implementations of the disclosure,
on recent user aclivily and on inpul provided by the user. which, however, should not be taken to limit the disclosure
Providing generative answers allows the platform to use a to the specific aspects or implementations, but are for
generative MLM to answer questions about information on explanation and understanding only.
the platform and perform tasks related to documents stored [0010] FIG. 1 schematically illustrates an example cloud-
on the platform, and the generative MLM’s response include based content management platform in which selected
citations to documents stored on the platform so the user can aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented, in
verify the response or obtain further information. accordance with various implementations.

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
2
[0011] FIG. 2 depicts a flowchart illustrating an example to the comment or resolve the comment to close a comment
incthod for practicing selected aspects of the present disclo- thread. In another example, a user may schedule a calendar
sure. event to collaboratively edit a document with another user,
[0012] FIG. 3 depicts a flowchart illustrating an example and the other user may need to review the document to
method for practicing selected aspects of the present disclo- prepare for the pending calendar event. In another example,
sure. a user may send an email or messenger message to a user
[0013] TG. 4 depicts a Nowchart illustrating an example with information relevant to documents in the cloud-based
method for practicing selected aspects of the present disclo- storage system. In another example, multiple users may
sure. work on the documents stored on the platform concurrently
[0014] FIG. 3 depicts a flowchart illustrating an cxample and see cach other’s edits to or comments on the documents
method for practicing selected aspects of the present disclo- in real-time (e.g., within a few milliseconds of an occurrence
sure. of an edit or a comment).
[0015] FIG. 6 depicts a flowchart illustrating an cxample [0026] The cloud-based data storage system may store
method for practicing selected aspects of the present disclo- numerous documents having information relevant to a user
sure. when making a decision or taking some other type of action.
[0016] FIG. 7 depicts a flowchart illustrating an example ‘The dillerent documents may be stored in different locations
method for practicing selected aspects of the present disclo- (e.g., in different folders in a cloud storage file system), in
sure. documents with different formats (e.g., word processing
[0017] VIG. 8 illustrates an example user interlace with documents, emails, spreadsheets, and image files), and in
generative machine learning model (MLM) prompts and documents with ditfcring permissions (c.g., some documents
generative MLM responses in accordance with implemen- may only be shared with certain users and may not be
tations of the present disclosure. viewable by other users). However, to locate relevant docu-
[0018] FIG. 9 depicts a flowchart illustrating an cxample ments, the user may need to spend a significant amount of
method for practicing sclected aspects of the present disclo- time searching through and reviewing documents to find the
sure. relevant documents and the relevant portions of the docu-
[0019] FIG. 10 illustrates an example user interface with ments. Such searching and reviewing may unduly delay
personalized generative MIM prompts in accordance with collaboration, may be disruptive lo the user experience and
implementations of the present disclosure. may result in use of a large amount of compuling resources.
[0020] FIG. 11 depicts a flowchart illustrating an example Further, the numerous documents stored at the cloud-based
method for practicing selected aspects of the present disclo- data storage system may include documents that reflect an
sure. organization’s wealth of knowledge (e.g., strategy docu-
[0021] L1G. 12 depicts a Nowchart illustrating an example ments, competitive analysis documents, design idea docu-
method for practicing selected aspects of the present disclo- ments, ctc.), which lics dormant until users know what to
sure. look for and where to find it. If the user is lacking this
[0022] FIG. 13A illustrates an example user interface with context, searching would not help the user with finding the
real-time anticipated generative MLM prompts in accor- documents containing, information that can assist the user
dance with implementations of the present disclosure. with making a decision or taking a particular action. As a
[0023] FIG. 138 illustrates another example user interface result, the user often has to recreate information that already
with further real-time anticipated generative MLM prompts exists in some of the documents stored at the cloud-based
in accordance with implementations of the present disclo- dala storage system, which leads lo unnecessary consump-
sure. tion of storage and processing resources.
[0024] VIG. 14 depicts an example compuler system in [0027] Aspects and implementations of the present disclo-
accordance with selected aspects of the present disclosure. sure address the above deficiencies, among others, by using
. a generative machine learning model (MI.M) to provide a
DETAILED DESCRIPTION user with information needed to make a decision or take a
[0025] A cloud-based content management platform may particular action, based on relevant documents stored at the
provide collaborative tools such as document applications cloud-based data storage system and without relying on the
(¢.g.. word processor, presentation, and spreadsheet appli- user’s knowledge of and searching for those documents. In
cations); a cloud-based document storage service that can some implementations, the generative MLM is tained to
store document application documents, image files, video gather and analyze numerous documents stored at the cloud-
files, audio files, or other file formats; an online calendar; an —_- based data storage system, derive meaning of content in the
email service; a messenger, etc. The cloud-based content documents, and/or generate relevant information needed by
management platform allows users to collaborate on a a user to make a decision or perform an action.
document stored on the platform. Such collaboration may [0028] The generative MI.M model can use other machine
include, for example, reviewing, sharing, ediling, or com- learning models, including an enceder-decoder architecture
menting, on a document. Tor example, a user may share a that can include one or more self-attention mechanisms and
document with another user, and in response lo the sharing one or more feed-lorward. mechanisms. In some embodi-
action, (he other user may open and view the document, or ments, (he generative MLM model can include an encoder
edit the document. In another example, a user may edit a that can encode input textual data into a vector space
decument, and in response to the ediling action, the other representation; and a decoder that can reconstruct the data
user may respond by further editing the document. accepting from the vector space, generating outputs with increased
the suggested edit, or commenting on the edit. In another novelty and uniqueness. The self-attention mechanism can
example, a user may comment on a document, and in compute the importance of phrases or words within a text
response to the commenting, action, another user may reply data with respect to all of the text data. A generative MI.M

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
3
model can also utilize the deep learning techniques, includ- query embedding, then the platform can determine that the
ing recurrent neural networks (RNNs), convolutional neural document or document portion is likely relevant to the user’s
networks (CNNs), or transformer networks. Further details text prompt.
regarding generative MI.Ms are provided herein. [0032] ‘The document pre-processing subsystem can cause
[0029] In some implementations, the generative MLM is the generative MLM to use a document of the cloud-based
trained to generate information for a user based only on the data storage system, or portions of the document, as input
documents the user has access to (documents associated and generate generalive MLM prompts about the document
with a user account of the user), and not the other documents or the document portions (3. questions about the docu-
stored at the cloud-based data storage system or facts ment or document portions, summaries of the document or
learned by the generalive MLM from other sources. In some document p ortions, ctc.). The document pre-p rocessing sub-
implementations, the generalive MLM is trained to distin- system may then input these generated prompts into the
guish between dillerent versions of a document and. to embedding model to generate query embeddings that are
account lor recent activity wilh respect to the document digital representations of the prompts. The document pre-
(e.g., opening of the document, editing of the document, processing subsystem may then associate these prompts or
commenting on the document, tesharing of the document, prompt! query embeddings with the document or the relevant
etc.) when determining which documents to use for provid- document portions. As discussed above, the platform can use
ing the information for the user. these query embeddings to determine if a document ora
portion of the document is relevant to a user’s text prompt
[0030] In some implementations, the cloud-based content or other user needs.
management platform converts a user’s query into a struc- [0033] In some implementations, the cloud-based data
tured query so the platform can search for relevant docu- storage system additionally or alternatively includes a per-
ments in the cloud-based data storage system. This may be sonalized prompt subsystem that may provide personalized
because the documents the user has access to at the cloud- prompts to users of the cloud-based content management
based data storage is larger than what the generative MLM platform based on documents in the cloud storage. The
can efficiently process. In response to user queries, the platform may select multiple documents in the cloud storage
generative MLM provides information with citations so that based on a selection criterion (e.g., documents that have
a user can verily the information. The information provided been recently created, viewed, or modified) and. designate
by the generative MIM can include links to documents in the selected documents as a “working sct.” The platform
the cloud-based data slorage system thal support the content may then input a document or a portion of the document
of the information. The information can include content in from the working sct into the generative MLM. and the
various forms such as Text answers, lists of users that may generative MLM may gencrate prompts based on the docu-
have relevant information, folders or documents or other ment, portions of the documents, multiple documents in the
locations at the cloud-based storage system, calendar working, set, or multiple document portions from different
appointments, emails, or other data. documents in the working set. Generated prompts may
[0031] In some implementations, the cloud-based data include queries such as, “What is new on the project?”
storage system includes a document pre-processing subsys- “Summarize the documents in this folder,” or “What needs
tem that prepares the documents stored at the cloud-based my allention?”
data storage system for use by the generative MLM. Prepa- [0034] In addition or alternatively, the cloud-based data
ration of the documents can be important duc to the large storage system includes a real-time anticipation subsystem
number of documents stored at the cloud-based data storage that, in real time, anticipates a user's interest in information
because such size would make it difficult, if not impossible, contained in documents in the cloud-based content manage-
for a conventional MI.M to use. The preparation may ment platform’s cloud storage. The platform may detect an
include inputting a document into an embedding, model to action of a user at a user interface of the platform (e.g., text
generate a query embedding based on the document. The data input into a search bar or generative MI.M prompt text
query embedding is a digital representation of the document. field, a user right-clicking on a document, etc.), and. perform
The preparation can also include inputting a portion of the an anticipatory assessment lo predict what additional infor-
document (¢.g., a senlence, paragraph, or section of the mation the user may need based. on the detected. user action.
document) into the embedding model to generate a query Specifically, in some embodiments, the platform may select
embedding for the portion of the document, and, similarly, one or more documents in the cloud storage based on a
the query embedding for the document portion is a digital selection criterion and designate the selected documents as
representation of that document portion. The document a “working set.” The platform may then use the action of the
pre-processing subsystem then associates these query user and a document or portion of the document from the
embeddings with the document or the document portions. working sct as input to the generative MLM, and the
These embeddings are used by other portions or subsystems generative MI.M may create, for presentation to the user,
of the cloud-based content management platform to deter- generative MLM prompts based. on the action of the user and
mine if a document or document portion is relevant to a the document, portions of the documents, multiple docu-
user’s actual query or predicted needs. Mor example, a user ments in the working sel, or multiple document portions
of the platform may submit a text prompt to the system, and from different decuments in the working set, which are
the system may input the text prompt into the embedding indicative of the user’s additional information needs in
model to oblain a query embedding Jor the text prompt. ‘The relation to the detected action. For example, in response to
text prompt’s query embedding can be compared to the (1) the user typing “passport” into a search bar of the user
query embeddings associated with a document or portions of interface, and (2) an image of the user’s passport being
that document. If the text prompt’s query embedding is stored in the cloud storage, the generative MLM may create
sufficiently similar to a document’s or a document portion’s the generative MI.M prompt, “Would you like to know when

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
4
your passport expires?” and present this prompt on the user to perform tasks on the platform, the use of computer
interface. In some implementations, the prompt is presented resources is improved, and memory consumplion is reduced.
to the user immediately after (e.g., within a few (or a . . . .
threshold number of) milliseconds of) the user’s performing, [0039] In addition, some benefits ot he present viselosure
or requesting to perform the action while the user is still may provide a technical cilect caused by or resulting from
focused on the action a technical solution to a technical problem. For example, one
= a . . . technical problem may relate to significant use of network
[0035] In addition or alternatively, some implementations A os a _
: etd : bandwidth and processing resources in the cloud-based
of the present disclosure may include a generative response : | .
- . content management environment when locating and load-
subsystem that provides generative MI.M response. Such : . -
. at : ing documents for user review of documents in the cloud
responses can include citations to documents in the cloud ' : ways . . - .
- ~ storage. Such locating and loading of documents in a con-
storage of the cloud-based content management platform. rae ae . .
a . 5 5 ventional cloud-based conient management environment
Providing generative MLM responses may include obtain- oa ” Le as
: i vn , may include many documents that the user has no interest in,
ing a generative MLM prompt from a user. ‘he generative et neal on nT wea ne Par
oan resulting in wastelul use of resources. One of the technical
response subsystem may process the prompt for intent or . P : wo
: . wae solutions to the technical problem may include determining,
structured search terms, which may result in weighing . . . .
cae : i" : using query embeddings from an embedding model, a
different terms higher when scarching for documents rel- . . .
smaller set of relevant documents, and generating responses
evant to the prompt. The generative response subsystem can : . .
- : to a user’s prompts using a generative MLM. As a conse-
re-rank or refine the search results based on the searching ° -
: . : : quence, computing resources and network bandwidth
user's permissions, a time threshold, a query embedding of . ; ae ~ ae
. : required by unnecessary transfer of documents inside the
the prompt as compared to a query embedding associated cl . . 7
: A cloud-based content management platform and downloads
with a document or document portion, or other search : e
an : ° : from server to client are reduced or eliminated.
criteria. The generalive response subsyslem may inpul the
generative MLM prompt and the documents or document [0040] FIG. 1 schematically depicts an example cloud-
portions [rom the search results into the generative MLM to based content management platform 100 (the “platform
generate a generative MLM response to the user’s prompt. 100”) in which selected aspects of the present disclosure
‘The response may include citations to the documents or may be implemented, in accordance with various implemen-
document portions from the search results. These citations tations. Any computing devices depicted in FIG. 1 or
may allow the user to view the content that supports the elsewhere in the figures may include logic such as one or
generative MLM’s response and verify the response or more processing device (¢.g., central processing unils or
obtain further information. The generative response subsys- “CPUs”, graphical processing units or “GPUs”) that execule
tem can analyze the generative MI.M’s response to verify computer-readable instructions stored in memory, or other
that the response is consistent with the contents of the cited types of logic such as application-specific integrated circuits
documents. Such verification can include comparing, the (“ASIC”), ficld-programmable gate arrays (“FPGA”). and
content overlap of the lext of the response and content of the so forth. Some of the systems depicted in FIG. 1, such as a
cited documents, which may include using the query embed- cloud content management system 110. may be imple-
dings and other textual overlap methods. mented using one or more server computing devices that
[0036] Accordingly, aspects of the present disclosure pro- form what is sometimes referred to as a “cloud infrastruc-
vide a user of a cloud-based content management platform ture,” although this is not required.
with verifiable responses lo a prompt. A generalive MLM [0041] In implementations, the platform 100 may include
processes the prompt and locuses on relevant and accessible a cloud content management system 110 that implements a
documents in a user's cloud storage on the cloud-based content management application that is accessible from
content management platform. Existing MLM systems with various client devices, including clients 140-1, .. . , 140-17
chat interfaces can answer questions by drawing on an that may be included in the platform 100, through either a
external body of knowledge that the MLM is trained on, but thin client interface, such as a web browser (e¢.g., a web-
these MLMs are unable to provide answers with citations to based cloud storage application), or a program interface. In
auser’s cloud storage on a cloud-based content management implementations, the cloud storage application that is imple-
platform. mented by the cloud content management system 110 may
[0037] Furthermore, conventional information retricval be a software as a service (SaaS) cloud content management
methods rely on conventional ranking algorithms to return application. ‘lhe cloud content management system 110 and
ranked lists of content that may be relevant to a user’s the clients 140-1, ..., 140-7 may be in data communication
search, and the user should consume the search results to via a computer network 150, which may be any suitable
find information relevant to the user's interests. The present network including any combination of a local area network
disclosure, on the other hand, provides a user with informa- (LAN), wide area network (WAN), or the Internet. The
tion synthesized from multiple cloud storage documents, cloud content management system 110 may include, among
and the information can contain links to specific portions of other things, a document pre-processing subsystem 112, a
those documents that support the information. personalized prompt subsystem 114, a real-time anticipation
[0038] In addition or alternatively, aspects of the present subsystem 116, a generative response subsystem 118, and a
disclosure predict a user’s interest in documents in the cloud generative MLM 120 to perform selected. aspects of the
storage and generate (preemptively or in real time) prompts present disclosure in order to enable more computationally
for the user to execule using the generative MLM. As such, ellicient generation of responses [or users of the platform
the cfliciency of cloud-based content management platforms 100. Additionally, the cloud content management system
is inereased, and user collaboration is expedited. In addition, 110 may reduce usage of network bandwidth and processing
by climinating time-consuming user searching and review- resources in the platform 100 when locating and loading
ing, of numerous documents and by using generative MT.Ms documents for user review of documents in cloud storage.

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
5
[0042] Each of the clients 140-1, ... , 140-m may include, part of the word processing document. In a spreadsheet, a
for cxample, a user computing device that is used by a user portion may include a row, a column, an individual cell, or
to access a cloud content management application via a other parts of the spreadsheet. In a presentation, a portion
cloud storage application user interface, such as a SaaS may include a slide. a text box, an image, or parts of the
cloud storage application, that is provided by the cloud presentation. In a PDI, a portion may include a sentence, a
content management system 110, e.g., through a web paragraph, a page, a section, an image, a text box, or some
browser. In an example, the clients 140-1, ... , 140-7 may otber part of the PDT. A portion of calendar data may include
include user computing devices associated with an indi- a date, a time, a location, subject text data, a body of the
vidual or an enlily or organization such as a business (e.g., calendar data, or other parts of the calendar data. A portion
financial institution, bank, etc.), non-profit, club, university, of an email may include a sender ficld, a recipient field, a
government agency, or any other organization that may use subject line, an attachment (which may be its own docu-
a cloud storage application. For example. a business may ment), a body of the email, a sentence, paragraph, or other
operate a cloud storage application to create, store, access, part of the body, or other email data. A portion of an image
and/or modify one or more files to manage financial records, may include a subsection of the image or other image data.
business records, client lists, and so forth. A portion of audio may include a specific playback interval
[0043] In various implementations, the platform 100 may (e.g. the audio content between playback times 00:00:00
include cloud storage servers 130-1, ... , 130-7. Miles that and 00:00:05), a portion of the text of the transcript, or other
are created, stored, accessed, and/or modified by one or audio data. A portion of a video may include a specific
more of the clients 140-1, ..., 140-m using the cloud storage playback interval (¢.g., the video or audio content between
application that is implemented by the cloud content man- _Playback times 01:30:00 and 01:31:15), a portion of the text
agement system 110 may be stored in the cloud content of the transcript, or other video data. A portion of a docu-
management system 110 or in one or more of the cloud ment may include a comment associated with the document,
storage servers 130-1... .. 130-1. In some implementations, where the comment may include text data or other data
the cloud storage servers 130-1... . , 130-2 along with the generated by a user of the platform 100.
cloud content management system 110 may form a distrib- [0046] A document may include metadata. The metadata
uted storage system, and the cloud content management may be stored in a metadata storage as part of the file of the
system 110 may create a plurality of data slices from a single document or may be stored in a separate part of the cloud
file, and. divide up the slices from the single file to be stored storage servers 130-1... . , 130-7 designated for document
across different cloud storage servers 130-1, ... , 130-2. metadata. The metadata may include data indicating an
Upon receipt of a request to access the file, the cloud content owner of the document; permission data, which may indi-
management system 110 may retrieve the slices from the cate which users of the platform 100 may open, view, edit,
cloud storage servers 130-1... ., 130-7 and reassemble the or otherwise access the document; data indicating when the
file from the slices. In some implementations, the distributed document was created, last opened, last modified, last com-
storage system may provide a degree of redundancy and mented upon, elc.; or olher metadata.
fault tolerance, such that fewer than all of the slices may be [0047] Throughout this disclosure, referring to a document
reassembled into the file. Accordingly, the risk of data loss may refer to the contents of the document. Similarly, refer-
may be minimized, even in a case where one of the cloud ring to a document portion may refer to the contents of that
storage servers 130-1, ..., 130-7 has a failure or is otherwise decument portion. The centenis of the document may
inaccessible. include the data that comprises the body of the document.
[0044] In some embodiments, a file may store a document. lor example, the contents of a word processing document
A document may store data or other information. Documents — may include the text of the document. In some implemen-
stored on the cloud storage servers 130-1, ..., 130-7 may tations, the contents of a document may not include the
store data or information in various formats. For example,a metadata of the document. For cxample, the system input-
document may include a word processing document, a ting a document portion into a generative MLM may include
spreadsheet, a presentation, a portable document format the system inputting the contents of that document portion
(PDF) document, or other text data. A document may into the generative MIM.
include calendar data, such as a calendar invile, an appoint- [0048] The document pre-processing subsystem 112 may
ment, a meeting, or other calendar dala. A document may include a subset or a component of the cloud content
include an email. A document may include an image, which management system 110. The document pre-processing, sub-
may include additional data, such as content of the image in system 112 may be configured to pre-process documents
text form generated by optical character recognition (OCR). stored on the platform 100. Pre-processing a document may
A document may include audio, which may include addi- include generating one or more query embeddings based on
tional data such as text corresponding to a transcript of the the document or based on a portion of the document. The
audio data. A document may include a video, which may query embeddings may be used by other components of the
include additional data such a text corresponding to a cloud. content management system 110 to provide generative
transcript of the video. information to a user of the platform 100.
[0045] In one or more implementations, a document may [0049] ‘The personalized prompt subsystem 114 may also
include one or more portions. A portion of a document include a subset er a component of the cloud content
(sometimes called a “document portion”) may include con- management system 110. ‘he personalized prompt subsys-
tent that is part of the document and that is less than the tem 114 may be configured to generale generalive MLM
entircty of the document, or a document portion may include prompts personalized to one or more users of the platform
the entire contents of the document. For example, in a word 100. Generating the personalized generative MLM prompts
processing document, a portion of the document may may be based on documents stored on the platform 100 to
include a sentence, a paragraph, a page, a section, or another which a user has access or documents that the user has

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
6

recently viewed, edited, or otherwise accessed, or may be input and past inputs. The RNN will address past and future
based on documents selected using some other selection measurements and make predictions based on this continu-
criteria. The cloud content management system 110 may ous measurement information. One type of RNN that may he
provide the personalized generative MI.M prompts to the used is a long short term memory (STM) neural network.
user on a user interface displayed on the user’s client 140-1 [0054] The generative MLM 120 may include a machine
so the user can submit the generative MIM query to the learning model configured to accept an input and generate an
generative MLM 120 and receive information from the output by repeatedly predicting the next word in the output
platform 100. based on the input and the current output. In some embodi-
[0050] The real-time anticipation subsystem 116 may also ments, the generative MI.M 120 may be based on or include
include a subset or a component of the cloud content one or more deep learning machine learning models. One or
management system 110. ‘he real-time anticipation subsys- more of those deep learning models may include a trans-
tem 116 may be configured to predict, in real-time, a user’s former-based. large language model (LLM), which may
interests and generate generative MLM prompts based on include one or more transformer models. A transformer may
those interests. he real-time anticipation subsystem 116 have been pretrained using selfsupervised learning, semi-
may predict the interests based on action of a user regarding supervised learning, or unsupervised training. The pretrain-
the platform 100 (c.g., inputting text into a user interface, ing may be followed by supervised fine-tuning. The training
right-clicking on a document, ctc.). The cloud content man- may include using a datasct that may include text data in
agement system 110 may provide the generative MI.M order to train the transformer on what words, phrases, or
prompts to the user on a user interface displayed on the other text data follow certain words or phrases. The trans-
user’s client 140-1 so the user can submit the generative former may include an attention mechanism configured to
MLM query to the generative MI.M 120 and receive infor- determine which parts of the input should be weighed more
mation from the platform 100. and to which other parts of the input a certain word relates.
[0051] The generative response subsystem 118 may The cloud. content management system 110 may include one
include a subset or a component of the cloud content or more generative MLMs 120, which may include diferent
management system 110. The generative response subsys- generative LLMs or diffcrent instances of the same genera-
tem 118 may be configured to accept user input from a user tive LLM.

of the platform 100 in the form ofa generative MLM prompt [0055] In some embodiments, the generative MLM 120
and utilize embedding models and generative MLM 120s to may accept, as input, a generative MLM prompt. ‘lhe
generate a response to the user’s prompt. Ihe generative generative MLM prompt may include text or other data. A
response subsystem 118 may input one or more documents user may generate the generative MLM prompt using user
or document portions or query embeddings as context into interface components, such as a text input ficld. The gen-
the generative MLM 120 in order to generate the response. erative MLM 120 may accept, as input, context. Context
The response may include citations to documents or docu- may include text or other data that may be separate from the
ment portions in the cloud storage that the generative MI.M user input and is used in generating the generative MI.M
120 used to generate the response. 120’s output. In some embodiments, the generative MI.M
[0052] The generative MLM 120 may include an artificial prompt may explicitly include context. In some embodi-
neural network. Artificial neural networks generally include ments, the generative MLM 120 may receive the context
a feature representation component with a classifier or separately from the generative MLM prompt and may
regression layers that map features to a target output space. synthesize the generative MLM prompt and the context into
ACNN, for example, hosts multiple layers of convolutional an input format that a transformer of the generative MLM
filters. Pooling is performed, and non-linearities may be 120 can use. ‘The output of the generative MLM 120 may
addressed, at lower layers, on top of which a multi-layer include text data or other data, and the output is sometimes
perceptron is commonly appended, mapping top layer [ea- referred to as a “response” or “generative MLM response.”
tures extracted by the convolutional layers to decisions (e.g., [0056] As an example, a generative MLM prompt may
classification outputs). The neural network may be a deep include the text input, “Summarize the Sales-Report-7 file”
network with multiple hidden layers or a shallow network where “Sales-Report-7” is a file on the cloud-based content
with zero or a few (c.g., 1-2) hidden layers. Deep learning management platform 100. The generative MLM 120 may
is a class of machine learning algorithms that use a cascade use the generative MLM prompt as input and may use the
of multiple layers of nonlinear processing units for feature contents of the “Sales-Report-7” file as context. The gen-
extraction and transformation. Each successive layer uses erative MLM 120 may synthesize the generative MLM
the output from the previous layer as input. Neural networks prompt and context into an input for a transformer of the
may leam in a supervised (e.g., classification) and/or unsu- generative MLM 120. The generative MLM 120 may pro-
pervised (e.g., pallern analysis) manner. Some neural net- cess the input by executing the transformer and. other
works (e.g., such as deep neural networks) include a hier- machine learning models and components to predict based
archy of layers, where the different layers learn dilTerent on their training, the next word or phrase in the generative
levels of representations that correspond to different levels MLM 120’s response.

of abstraction. In deep learning, each level learns to trans- [0057] ‘The platform 100 may prepare documents in the
form its input data into a slightly more abstract and com- cloud. storage of the platform 100 for use in providing
posite representation. generative answers. ‘his preparation may include an embed-
[0053] In some embodiments, the generative MLM 120 ding model generating (1) embeddings based on a docu-
may be one or more RNNs. An RNN is a type of neural ment, (2) embeddings based on a portion of the document,
network that includes a memory to enable the neural net- or (3) embeddings based on prompts generated by the cloud
work to capture temporal dependencies. An RNN is able to content management system 110 about the document or
learn input-output mappings that depend on both a current document portions. The cloud content management system

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
7
110 may use these embeddings to compare to embeddings of [0071] Statement: The file must contain between 256 kB
other data, such as prompts input by a user, in order for the and 4 MB of data. Valid file extensions for the file include
cloud content management system 110 to determine if that -txt, .pdf. and .nrt. The file can be stored either in the
other data is similar to the documents or document portions “Tocations” folder or the “Miscellaneous” folder. Multiple
stored in the cloud storage. files can be accepted.
[0058] FIG. 2 is a flowchart illustrating an example [0072] Prompt: ‘lell me about the constraints on the file
method 200 of pre-processing documents in cloud storage configuration.
using query embeddings, in accordance with implementa- [0073] Statement: The mecting originally scheduled for
Gions disclosed. herein. For convenience, the operations of Wednesday morning has been rescheduled to Thursday
the flowchart are described with reference to a system that afternoon to better fit with everyonc’s schedules. We
performs the operations. ‘his system may include various will be discussing, upcoming deadlines and assigning
components of various computer systems, such as the docu- employees to various projects. Please submit any edits
ment pre-processing subsystem 112 or one or more other to the timeline before Thursday at 12 p.m.
components of the cloud content management system 110. [0074] Prompt: °
Moreover while cperations of metod an Ol hown in a [0075] In one embodiment, the set of example statement-
pa en anor eh he roonk ae to 4 mn if ormore prompt pairs may further include a context portion. ‘he
rac O50) AL hy ~ 310 the ak onntte 2 OF acd ee _ b context portion may provide context to the document portion
I ‘sl 1 12 “oes lect ; oats eta k eee ened he selected in block 210. The context portion may include a
alo Nab hi Select a POron OF a lator are othe document portion that appears before or after the selected
¢ vee " 4 ic content een ccien plat odo . the document portion in the document. The context portion may
weieta 4 Sement portion may ye the entire ee rae include a predetermined number of lines of text that appears
of he a ocument rae may he ts answ he dl portion before or after the selected document portion in the docu-
of tae et n vm 112 1 odiments, ha Hae ment (e.g., the previous 20 lines of text). The context portion
vocltament port su a sen may dott cy ih cet tho 4 may include some other data that may provide context to the
oO th P oon t doc ocument tic perform the metho decument portion selected in block 210. In one embodiment,
on the selected document portion. . the context portion may be indicated in the few-shot prompt
[0060] At block 220, the document pre-processing sub- in the form of the text “Context.” followed by the context
system 112 may input a sct of cxample statement-prompt portion
pairs into a generative MLM 120. The set of cxample [0076] In one or more embodiments, at block 220, the
statement-prompt pairs may include a generative MLM - .
: document pre-processing subsystem 112 may input a single-
prompt configured to generate one or more other generative . -
. . shot prompt into the generative MI.M 120. The single-shot
MLM prompts about the document portion selected in block a A . -
: prompt may include a single example statement and a single
210. The set of example statement-prompt pairs may include : Re . ‘
. A , example prompt, in addition to the selected document por-
a few-shol prompt, which may include multiple example A ake . A ' .
rohan tion of block 210. In some embodiments, a single-shot
statements that may be similar in length or style to the — : : . oe
. 5 nan prompl may be less computationally intensive to process
decument portion selected in block 210. The few-shot ak , 4 or
: than a few-shot prompt, or the document pre-processing
prompt may include one or more example prompts, and each “ecere | ° . . .

. : ; = subsystem 112 may have fewer example slalements or
example prompt may be associated with one of the example d thi , imolo-sh ‘ dof
tatements. In some embodiments, the example statements prompts, and thus, tay use a single-shot prompt instead 0
s - , > P . a few-shot prompt. In some embodiments, at block 220, the

and corresponding example prompts may help provide con- ds . bsy: 112 ft
text for the generative MLM when generating responses ocument pre-processing subsystem may input a no-
0061) | bod L. the few-shol lmay b *. shot prompt into the generative MLM 120. The no-shot
ie Sof embodiment, Me few: sho! prompt may © mn prompt may include no example statements or example
he format of: prompts. The no-shot prompt may include a command to
[0062] Statement: [fir st example statement] . generate a generative MIM prompt about the selected
[0063] Prompt: [first example prompt about the first document portion.
statement] . ; [0077] At block 230, ihe document pre-processing sub-
[0064] Statement: [second example statement system 112 may obtain an oulput [rom the generative MLM
[0065] Prompt: [second example prompt about the sec- 120. The output may include a generative MLM prompt
ond statement] . . associated with the portion of the document. ‘Ihe generative
[0066] Statement: [document portion selected in block 4. 120 may use the one or more example statements, the
210] one or more example prompts, and the sclected document
[0067] Prompt: oo portion of block 210 as context; use other portions of the
The last “Prompt” in the few-shot prompt may indicale lo input as a generative MLM prompt; synthesize these inputs
the generative MLM 120 that the generative MLM 120 is into a format for the generative MI.M 120 and other machine
being prompted to follow the first and second examples and learning models and components, and input them into the
generate a prompt about the document portion selected in generative MI.M 120 and other machine learning models
block 210. and components in order for the generative MLM 120 to
[0068] An example few-shot prompt may include: generate the predicted text as the response in the form of a
[0069] Statement: A cat is a four-legged, carnivorous generative MLM prompt. For example, responsive to the
mammal. It belongs to the family Felidae and is often few-shot prompt in the previous example, above, the gen-
kept as a house pet. Cats catch and eat mice, rats, birds, erative MLM 120 may gencrate the gencrative MLM
and other small animals. Cats do not make much noise prompt, “What time is the meeting on Wednesday?”, “Help
other than by purring and occasionally meowing. me prepare for my upcoming Thursday meeting,” or “When
0070] Prompt: What is a cat? do T need to submit my timeline edits?”
ip 'y

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
8
[0078] At block 240, the document pre-processing sub- MLM prompt and the document portion are similar and,
system 112 may generate, using an embedding model, a thus. the document portion may assist in generating a
query embedding based on the generative MI.M prompt generative MI.M response to the generative MI.M prompt.
generated at block 230. The embedding mode! may include [0081] In some implementations, the subsequent use by
a piece of software or hardware that accepts a piece of data the generative MLM may include the generative response
as an input and generates a query embedding as an output. subsystem 118 selecting the portion of the document based
The query embedding may include a data representation of on a similarity between the query embedding generated in
the input, ¢.g., in the case of block 240, the generative MLM block 240 and a query embedding of a user input to the
prompt. The embedding model produces similar query platform 100. The generative response subsystem 118 may
embeddings for similar inputs. The similarity of two or more then input the portion of the document into the generative
query embeddings can be determined using various meth- MI-M 120 and generate, using the generative MI.M 120, a
ods. The auery embedding may include a vector. The vector generative MLM response thal includes a citation to the
may include multiple floats. It should be noted that while the document portion, as discussed further below.
term “query embedding” is used herein, this should not be
interpreted as restricting a query embedding to only be [0082] In one embodiment, the method 200 may further
associated with a query. generative MI.M prompt, etc. The include inputting the document that contains the document
lerm “query embedding” may refer to an embedding asso- portion selected in block 210 into the embedding model. The
ciated with other data, such as an embedding generated embedding model may generate a query embedding, and the
based on a document. ‘he document pre-processing subsys- document pre-processing subsystem. 112 may store an asso-
tem 112 may use the query embedding to determine whether ciation of this query embedding with the document. Input-
the generative MLM prompt is semantically similar to ting the document into the embedding model may include
another piece of content, which may include a document inpulling the entire document or a subset of the document.
portion, a document, or multiple documents in the cloud ‘Lhe subset of the document may include a threshold number
storage. of document portions, a threshold number of pages (e.g. the
; . . . veces first five pages of the document), a document portion that the
[0079] In some embodiments, the document pre-process- - ° - -
ing, subsystem 112 may perform a compression operation on document Bre-Proce: ssing subsystem 112 has determined is a
. | : ; . _ representative portion of the document, or some other subset
the vector. In some embodiments, the vector may include a of the document
large number of floats (e.g., hundreds or thousands of floats). :
‘The document pre-processing subsystem 112 may compress [0083] In some embodiments, the method 200 may further
the vector to reduce the number of floats or otherwise reduce include grouping the document portion selected in block 210
the size of the vector. The document pre-processing subsys- and the generative MLM prompt generated in block 230 into
tem 112 may use fewer computing resources when process- a statement-prompt pair. The document pre-processing sub-
ing or storing a compressed vector versus the uncompressed system 112 may then be able to use this statement-prompt
vector. pair in a future set of example statement-prompt pairs. The
[0080] At block 250, the document pre-processing sub- plattorm 100 may include a statement-prompt library that
system 112 may store an association of the query embedding may include multiple example statement-prompt pairs. The
with the portion of the document selected in block 210. ‘The document pre-processing subsystem 112, at block 220 may
association may be subsequently uscd by the generative select one or more of the example statement-prompt pairs in
MLM 126 to provide information related to content of the the statement-prompl library to use to generate a few-shot
documents to users of the platform 100. The document prompl, a one-shol Prompt, or some other generalive MLM
pre-processing subsystem 112 associating the query embed- prompt. hus, the platform 100 may increase the number of
ding with the document portion may include creating a examples that the document pre-processing subsystem diz
logical link on the platform 100 between the query embed- can usc to generate example statements and prompts, which
ding, and the document portion. The document pre-process- may improve the accuracy and performance of the platform
ing subsystem 112 storing the association may include 100.
storing the query embedding in metadala associated with the [0084] In some embodiments, the document pre-process-
document portion or the document containing the document ing subsystem 112 may execute the method. 200 in response
portion. In one embodiment, as part of block 250, the to a document being created in or uploaded to the platform
document pre-processing subsystem 112 may associate the 100 or in response to the document being modified while on
query embedding with the document that contains the docu- the platform 100. For cxample, responsive to a document
ment portion. The query embeddings associated with the being created, uploaded. or modified, the document pre-
document portion or the document may allow a component processing subsystem 112 may place the document in a
of the cloud content management system 110 to determine queue, and the document pre-processing subsystem 112 may
whether a generative MI.M prompt, another document por- execute the method 200 on each document in the queue. In
tion, or another document is similar to the document portion one embodiment, the document pre-processing subsystem
selected in block 210. For example, the generative response 112 may execute the method 200 in response to a document
subsystem 118 may receive a generalive MLM prompt and portion being created or modified. In some embodiments,
may inpul that prompt into the embedding model to generate the document pre-processing subsystem 112 may asynchro-
another query embedding. ‘lhe generative response subsys- nously execute the method 200, which may include the
tem 118 may compare the query embedding of the newly decument pre-processing subsystem 112 executing the
inputted generative MLM prompt to the query embedding method 200 not responsive to the document or document
generated at block 240. If the two query embeddings are portion being ercated, modified, or uploaded. In some
within a certain distance threshold, then the generative embodiments, in order to reduce use of computational
response subsystem 118 determines that the generative resources, the document pre-processing subsystem 112 may

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
9
wait to prepare documents with some query embeddings system 110 may free the portion of the memory that stores
until the document is needed in order to respond to a prompt the one or more query embeddings generated in the itera-
or other query. tions of block 326. Storing the query embeddings for the
[0085] The document pre-processing, subsystem 112 may various document portions may consume cloud content
repeatedly execute the method 200 and may select the same management system 110 memory or data storage space (e.g.,
decument portion in block 210 in each execution. ‘This the cloud storage servers 130-1, .. . , 130-2). In order to
repeated execution on the same document portion may allow reduce memory and. slorage space usage, the document
the document pre-processing subsystem 112 to generate pre-processing subsystem 112 may generate the query
multiple different generative MLM prompts for the same embeddings temporarily in response to a user query, and. the
document portion. In some embodiments, during a repeated document pre-processing subsystem 112 may free the
execution of the method 200, the document pre-processing memory or storage space after the document pre-processing
subsystem 112 may use different example statements and subsystem 112 has used the query embeddings to respond to
prompts at block 220. the user query.
[0086] FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an example [0091] As an example, a user of the platform 100 may
method 300 of pre-processing documents in cloud storage inpul, into a user interface of the platform 100, a user query
using query embeddings, in accordance with implementa- that includes the generative MLM prompt, “Prepare me for
Giens disclosed. herein. l’or convenience, the operations of my upcoming meeting.” Al the time the user inputs the user
the flowchart are described with reference to a system that query, the document pre-processing subsystem 112 may not
performs the operations. his system may include various have generated query embeddings for one or more document
components of various computer systems, such as the docu- portions that are used to generate a response to the user
ment pre-processing subsystem 112. Moreover, while opera- query. The document pre-processing subsystem 112 may
tions of method 300 are shown in a particular order, this is execute the method 300 to generate a generative MLM
not meant to be limiting. One or more operations may be response to the user query, and part of executing the method
reordered, omitted, or added. 300 may include generating the query embeddings at block
[0087] At block 310, the document pre-processing sub- 326. After the document pre-processing subsystem 112
system 112 may select a document stored in the cloud-based generates the response and presents the response to the user,
content management platlorm 100. ‘The document may the query embeddings may no longer be needed, and the
include one or more document portions. Selecting the docu- cloud content management system 110 may [ree the memory
ment may be based on a user query input into the platform or data storage space storing the query embeddings. In some
100. For cxample, the document pre-processing subsystem embodiments, the cloud content management system 110
{12 may select the document in response to determining the ‘may not free the memory or data storage space occupied by
document is relevant to the user query. the query embeddings and, instead, may store the query
[0088] At block 320, for each document portion of the one embeddings in data storage for future use.
or more document portions of the document determined in [0092] FIG. 4 is a flowchart illustrating an example
block 310, the document pre-processing subsystem 112 may method. 400 of pre-processing documents in cloud storage
execute blocks 322-328. At block 322, the document pre- using query embeddings, in accordance with implementa-
processing subsystem 112 may input a set of slalement- tions disclosed herein. or convenience, the operations of
prompt pairs and the document portion into a generative the flowchart are described with reference to a system that
MLM 120. Block 322 may include similar functionality to performs the operations. ‘his system may include various
block 220 of FIG. 2. componcnts of various computer systems. such as the docu-
[0089] At block 324, the document pre-processing sub- ment pre-processing subsystem 112. Morcover, while opera-
system 112 may generate, using the generative MLM 120, a tions of method 400 are shown in a particular order, this is
generative MI.M prompt associated with the document not meant to be limiting. One or more operations may be
portion. Block 324 may include similar functionality to reordered, omitted, or added.
block 230 of TIG. 2. At block 326, the document pre- [0093] In block 410, the document pre-processing subsys-
processing subsystem 112 may generate, via an embedding tem 112 may select a portion of a document stored in the
model, a query embedding based on the generative MLM cloud-based content management platform 100. Block 410
prompt. Block 326 may include similar functionality to may include similar functionality to block 210 of FIG. 2. In
block 240 of FIG. 2. At block 328, the document pre- block 420, the document pre-processing subsystem 112 may
processing subsystem 112 may store an association of the generate, using a generative MLM 120, a gencrative MLM
query embedding with the document portion for subsequent prompt associated with the portion of the document selected
use by the generative MLM 120 to provide a response to the in block 410. The generative MLM may generate the gen-
user query. Block 328 may include similar functionality to erative MLM prompt responsive to an input generative
block 250 of FIG. 2. MIM prompt and the selected portion of the document. The
[0090] In some embodiments, the document pre-process- inpul generative MLM prompt may include a no-shot
ing, subsystem 112 may store the query embeddings gener- prompt, an example statement-prompt pair (e¢.g., a one-shot
ated in each ileration of block 326 on the cloud content prompl), or a set of example stalement-prompt pairs (¢.g., a
management system 110. This may include storing the query few-shot prompt). Block 420 may include similar function-
embeddings in a memory of the cloud content management ality to block 230 of FIG. 2. At block 430, the document
system 110. The cloud content management system 110 may pre-processing subsystem 112 may generale, using an
periodically determine a complction status of the user query embedding model, a query embedding based on the genera-
of the block 310. Responsive to the cloud content manage- tive MLM prompt generated in block 420. Block 430 may
ment system 110 determining that the user query of the block include similar functionality to block 240 of FIG. 2. At block
310 has been completed, the cloud content management 440, the document pre-processing subsystem 112 may store

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
10
an association of the embedding generated in block 430 with be compressible. The embedding model may be the same
the portion of the document selected in block 410 for embedding model as, or may be another instance of the same
subsequent use by the generative MI.M 120 to provide embedding model as, the embedding model of block 240 of
information related to content of the document to users of the method 200.
the platform 100. Block 440 may include similar function- [0099] At block 530, the generative response subsystem
ality to block 250 of FIG. 2. . 118 may select, multiple documents stored on the cloud-
[0094] By processing and preparing documents stored by phased content management platform 100, a subsct of the
the platform 100 as discussed. herein, the documents may be multiple documents. The generative response subsystem’s
ready to be used by a generative MLM 120 to provide 118 selection at block 530 may include various steps that
generative answers, provide personalized gencrative MLM seduce, refine, or re-rank the multiple documents stored on
prompts to users based on the documents, or provide real- the platform 100 in order to arrive at a subset of the
time generative MLM prompt suggestions: based on the decuments thal is workable by the generative MLM 120 and
documents. For example, the query embeddings associated that is relevant to the generative MLM prompt.
with the documents or document portions generated by . .
methods 200, 300, or 400 may be used to determine what [0100] In one embodiment, at block 530, the generative
documents of the platform 100 are relevant to a user’s Tesponse subsystem 118 may input the generative MLM
generative MLM prompt. The relevant documents may be prompt into a search term-gencrating generative MLM. The
input into a generative MLM 120 to provide a generative search term-generating MI.M may include a generative
MLM response or lo generate generative MLM prompts that MLM 120 of the cloud. content management system 110.
a user may find helpful. The search term-generating generative MI.M may include a
[0095] FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating an cxample generative MLM that has been trained and configured to
method 500 of providing generative answers, including generale search lerms thal the generative response subsys-
citations to source documents, in accordance with imple- tem 118 can use to search the documents of the platform 100
mentations disclosed herein. For convenience, the opera- for documents relevant to the search terms. ‘The search
tions of the flowchart are described with reference to a term-generating generative MLM may generate a response
system that performs the operations. This system may with one or more search terms.
include various components of various computer systems, [0101] In some embodiments, the search term-generaling
such as the generative response subsystem 118. Moreover, generative MLM may generate a response with one or more
while operalions of method 500 are shown in a particular synonyms of a tenm or similar terms to a term in the
order, this is not meant to be limiting. One or more opera- generative MLM prompt. For cxample. in response to the
tions may be reordered, omitted, or added. generative MLM prompt including the word “cat,” the
[0096] At block 510, the generative response subsystem scarch term-generating generative MLM’s response may
118 may obtain a generative MLM prompt from a user include words such as “cat,” “feline,” or “kitten.” In certain
interface. The user interface may include a user interface of | embodiments, the search term-generating generative MLM
the platform 100. The user interface may include a user may generate a response with a word stem of a word in the
interface displayed on a client 140-1. The generative generative MI.M prompt. For example, in response to the
response subsystem 118 may obtain the generative MLM generative MLM prompt including the word “publication,”
prompt over the computer network 150. the search term-generating generative MI.M’s response may
[0097] Tn one implementation, the generative MI.M include words such as “publish,” “public,” “publicize.” or
prompt may include text data. Por example, the generative “publisher.” Tn some embodiments, the search term-gener-
MLM prompt may be, “What is the maximum file size you ating generative MLM may generate a response ina Boolean
can upload to the website?” ‘The generative MLM prompt search format. F or example, in response lo the generalive
may include a reference to a user of the platform 100. Tor MLM prompt being, “What documents should I review for
example, the generative MLM prompt may be, “What is ™Y upcoming mecting?”, the scarch term-generating gen-
jsmith 182 working on today?” Where “jsmith182” is a crative MLM may generate a response such as “(document
username of a user of the platform 100. The generative OR file) AND (review OR analyze) AND [after: 2023 Sep.
MLM prompt may include a reference to a document, folder, 1] AND [before: 2023 Sep. 14]” where the current date is
or file on the platform 100. For cxample, the generative Sep. 1, 2023.
MLM prompt may be “What is a key insight of/Docs/ [0102] ‘Ihe generative response subsystem 118 may input
SalesReports/?” where “/Docs/SalesReports” is a reference —_ data into the search term functionality of the cloud content
to a folder stored on the platform 100. The generative MI.M management system 110 to weigh certain scarch terms as
prompt may be “Summarize Sales-Report-7” where “Sales- more important than other search terms. For example, the
Report-7” is a document stored.on the platform 100. Insome —_generative response subsystem 118 may indicate that certain
embodiments, a reference to a document, folder, or file on common words (e.g., “the,” “of.” “a,” “an,” “he,” “to,” “in,”
the platform 100 may include a uniform resource locator etc.) should receive less weight than other word. in the search
(URL), uniform resource identifier (URI), a file system path, terms. The generative response subsystem 118 may input the
or some other data that may identify a location in the generative MLM prompt or search terms into a search
platform 100. term-weighing generative MLM, which may include a gen-
[0098] At block 520, the generative response subsystem erative MLM 120 of the cloud content management system
118 may generale, using an embedding model, a first query 110 trained and configured to determine which words in a
embedding based on the gencrative MLM prompt. The search query are important. The output of the search term-
query embedding may include a data representation of the weighing generative MLM may include data indicating
generative MLM prompt. The query embedding may which words of the scarch terms are important and their
include a vector, which may include multiple floats and may relevant weights.

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
11
[0103] The generative response subsystem 116 may then documents with a timestamp within the last week are
perform a keyword search on the one or more documents included in the subset. Third, the generative response sub-
stored on the platform 100, and the search may be based on system 118 may perform a keyword search on the refined
the search terms generated by the search term-generating subset of documents based on the user’s generative MI.M
generative MI.M, the search term-weighing generative prompt to further refine the subset. Tourth, the generative
MLM, or other search components of the cloud content response subsystem 118 may re-rank the documents in the
management system 110. The keyword search may select a further subset based on the similarity between a query
subset of the documents stored on the platform 100. ‘The embedding associated with a document and the query
generalive response subsystem 118 may rank the documents embedding of the generative MLM prompt. Other orders of
in the subsct such that more relevant documents are listed these various functions are contemplated within the scope of
before less relevant documents. the disclosure.
[0104] In one embodiment, the generalive response sub- [0108] Although the above discussion includes the gen-
system 118 may rank a document higher or lower based on erative response subsystem 118 performing the keyword
a timestamp associated with the document. For example, the searching, ranking, and other functionality, such actions
metadata associated with the document may include a time- may, in some cases, be performed by other components of
stamp of the last time the document was opened. modified, the cloud content management system 110. The other com-
commented on, or created. Documents with a more recent ponents may include the document pre-processing subsys-
timestamp may be ranked higher than a document with a tem 112, the personalized prompt subsystem 114, the real-
later timestamp. In some embodiments, in response to a lime anticipation subsystem 116, or another component of
document’s timestamp not being within a threshold time the cloud content management system 110 specifically con-
range, the cloud content management system 110 may not figured to perform such searching and ranking actions (e.g.,
include the document in the subset. a document scarching subsystem (not shown in FIG. 1)).
[0105] The generative response subsystem 118 may rank a [0109] At block 540, the generative response subsystem
document higher or lower based on a query embedding 118 may input the generative MIM prompt and the subset
associated with the document. A query embedding associ- of the one or more of documents into a generative MI.M
ated with a document may include a query embedding, 120. The generative MI.M 120 may be a different generative
generated during the preparation process for the document MLM 120 than the search lerm-generaling generative MLM
(e.g., during the method 200 of FIG. 2, the method 300 of or the search term-weighing generalive MLM of block 530.
FIG. 3, the method 400 of FIG. 4). A query embedding ‘The generative MLM 120 of block 540 may include a
associated with a document may include a query embedding generative MLM trained and configured to generate a
of a gencrative MLM prompt generated during the method _ response to the generative MLM prompt of block 510 based
900 of FIG. 9 or the method 1100 of FIG. 11, discussed on the subset selected in block 530. The generative MLM
below. A query embedding associated with a document may 120 may use the contents of the subsct as context for the
include a query embedding generated using some other generative MLM 120.
process. In some implementations, the metadata associated [0110] Tn some embodiments, using the contents of the
with the document may include a query embedding based on subset as context may include using one or more document
the document or one or more query embeddings based on the portions of the one er more decuments of the subset as
one or more document portions contaimed in the document. context. In seme contexts, using the entire contents of a
Documents with query embeddings thal are more similar to decument or multiple documents in the subsel may be
the query embedding of the generative MLM prompt of compulationally intensive or may use a large amount of
block 510 may be ranked higher than a document with less memory or other storage. ‘Thus, in some embodiments, the
similar query embeddings. In response to a document’s generative MLM 120 may use one or more document
query embedding(s) not being within a threshold similarity portions of the subsct as context for the generative MLM
to the generative MLM’s prompt’s query embedding, the 120. In some embodiments, the generative response subsys-
generative response subsystem 118 may not include the tem 118 may select the one or more document portions of the
document in the subset. subset based on various criteria, such as a document por-
[0106] Inone embodiment, a document may include meta- tion’s associaled query embedding being within a threshold
data that indicates whether a certain user or group of users similarity to the generative MIM prompt, or some other
has permission to open, edit, or perform other actions related crileria.
to the document. In response to the user that submitted the [0111] At block 550, the generative response subsystem
generative MI.M prompt not having permission to open, 118 may generate, using the generative MI.M 120, a gen-
edit, or perform another action related to the decument (as eralive MLM response. The generative MLM 120 may use
indicated by the permissions metadata), the cloud content the generative MLM prompt as a prompt and the subset of
management system 110 may not include the document in one or more documents as context, synthesize these inputs
the subset. into a format lor a transformer of the generative MLM 120
[0107] The various searching, refining, and ranking func- and other machine learning models and components, and
Gionalily discussed above in relation to block 530 may occur input them into the transformer and other machine learning
in diferent orders. Tor example, (he generalive response modcls and components in order for the gencrative MLM
subsystem 118 may first determine a subset of documents 120 to generate the predicted text as the generative MLM
that the user has permission to view or edit, based on the tesponse,
permissions metadata of cach document. Second, the gen- [0112] In some embodiments, the response generated by
erative response subsystem 118 may refine the subset based the generative MLM 120 may include one or more citations
on the timestamps of the documents that indicate the last to one er more documents of the subset. The citation may
time a document was opened, modified, etc. such that only allow a user to view the content that supports the generative

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
12
MLM response, verify the generative MLM response, or [0116] The method 500 may further include obtaining a
obtain further information. A citation may include a link to second generative MLM prompt from the user interface. The
a document in the subset. The linked document may include second generative MI.M prompt may include a follow-up
the document providing support for the generative MI.M query from the user after obtaining the generative MI.M
response. The link may include a URI., URI, a file system response in black 550. The follow-up query may include a
path, or some other data that can identify the location of the follow-up question about the content of the generative MI.M
linked document. The link may allow a user to interact with response generated. in block 550, a request for more infor-
the link and open the referenced document on a user mation similar to the generative MLM response, or some
interface (e.g., a user interlace of a client 140-1). In some otber query. ‘The generative response subsystem 118 may
embodiments, a citation to the one or more documents of the input the second generative MLM prompt into the genera-
subset may include a citation to one or more specific tive MLM 120. ‘lhe generative response subsystem 118 may
document portions of the one or more documents. In such an input the subset of documents selected in block 530 and the
embodiment, the link to a document may include a link to generative MLM response generated in block 550 as context
the specific document portion. for the generative MLM. The generative response subsystem
[0113] The method 500 may further include providing, on 118 may determine that a different subset of documents is
a user interface of the platform 100, the generalive MLM needed to respond to the follow-up query and, thus, may
response generated in block 550. [he generative MLM select a different subset of documents. The generative MLM
response may include a highlighting of a portion of the 120 may use these inputs to generate another generative
generative MLM response. In some embodiments, the gen- MLM response to the follow-up query.
erative response subsystem 118 may include, in the genera- [0117] FIG. 6 is a flowchart illustrating an example
tive MLM response, data that may indicate to the user method 600 of providing generative answers, including
interface to highlight certain portions of the gencrative cilations to source documents, in accordance with imple-
MLM response. In response to processing this data, the user mentations disclosed herein. For convenience, the opera-
interface may highlight the portion of the generative MI.M tions of the flowchart are described with reference to a
response as indicated by the data. The highlighting may system that performs the operations. This system may
assist a user in quickly determining which parts of the include various components of various computer systems,
generalive MLM response are supported by the document in such as the generative response subsystem 118. Morcover,
the subset. while operations of method 600 are shown in a particular
[0114] In some embodiments, the user interface may use order, this is not meant to be limiting. One or more opera-
dittcrent colors or other visual indications in its highlighting tions may be reorderod, omitted. or added.
to indicate that different parts of the generative MLM [0118] At block 610, the generative response subsystem
response are supported by different documents in the subset 118 may obtain a generative MLM prompt from a user
or different document portions. For example, the first sen- interface. Block 610 may include similar functionality to
tence of the generative MI.M response may be supported by block 510 of FIG. 5. At block 620, the generative response
Document A, and the user interface may highlight the first sub system 118 may input the generative MI.M prompt from
sentence in blue. The second sentence of the generative block 610 and one or more documents into a generative
MLM response may be supported by Document B, and the MLM 120. The one or more documents may include docu-
user interface may highlight the second sentence in yellow. ments stored on the cloud-based content management plat-
‘These different colors for the different sentences may form 100. One or more of the documents may include one
quickly signal to a user that these sentences are supported by er more document portions, and one or more of these
different documents. document portion may include an associated query embed-
[0115] In some embodiments, responsive to the generative ding. In some embodiments, block 620 may include similar
MLM response generated in block 550 having a link to a functionality to block 340 of FIG. 5.
supporting document, and in response to a user interacting [0119] At block 630, the generative response subsystem
with the link, the user interface may open the supporting 118 may gencratc, using the gencrative MLM 120. a gen-
document in the user interface and highlight the document crative MLM response. Block 630 may include functionality
portion in the document that supports the generalive MLM similar to block 550 of the FIG. 5. At block 640. the
response. For example, the generative MLM response may generative response subsystem 118 may generate, using an
include a link to Document A because a paragraph in embedding model, a query embedding based on the response
Document A supports the generative MLM response. A user generated in block 630. The embedding model may be the
may click on the link, and the user interface may open same embedding model as, or may be another instance of the
Document A in another browser tab, browser window, same embedding model as, the embedding model of block
software application window, or other user interface arca. 240 of the method 200.
The user interface may highlight the paragraph in Document [0120] At block 650, the generative response subsystem
A that supports the generative MLM response. The high- 118 may select a subset of the one or more document
lighting may allow the user to quickly locate the portion of portions of black 620 where the query embedding of each
Document A that supports the generative MLM response so decument portion in this subset is within a threshold simi-
the user can verify the contents of the generative MLM larity from the query embedding generated in block 640.
response or obtain further information from the source ‘Thus, the generative response subsystem 118 may select
document. In another implementation, a middle portion of decument portions thal may be semantically similar to the
an image in Document C may support the generative MLM generative MLM response. At block 660, the generative
response, and the user interface may position a box around response subsystem 118 may include one or more citations
the middle portion to quickly signal to a user that this portion to one or more document portions of the subset in the
of the image supports the response. generative MI.M response generated at block 630. Block

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
13
660 may include similar functionality to block 550 of FIG. [0125] The generative response subsystem 118 may gen-
5 regarding citations to documents or document portions. erate, via an embedding model (c.g., the embedding model
[0121] TIG. 7 is a flowchart illustrating an example of, or instance of the embedding model of, block 710), a
method 700 of providing generative answers. including query embedding based on the pene) tative MLM response
citations to source documents, in accordance with imple- generated in block 750. The generative response subsystem
mentations disclosed herein. For convenience, the opera- 118 may determine whether the query embedding bas ed on
tions of the flowchart are described with reference to a the generative MLM response 1S within a threshold similar.
system that performs the operations. This system may ity to a query embedding of a document of the multiple
include various components of various computer systems, documents, or 1s within a threshold similarity to a query
such as the generative response subsystem 118. Moreover, embe dding ofa document portion of the subset of document
while operations of method 700 are shown in a particular portions. Responsive to the generative Tesponse subsystem’s
order, this is nol meant to be limiting. One or more opera- 8 dete mination that the query embedding based on the
tions may be reordered, omitted, or added. generative MLM response is not within the threshold simi-
° larity of any embedding of the one or more documents or the
[0122] At block 710, the gencrative response subsystem subset of document portions, the generative response sub-
118 may generate, using an embedding model, a query system 118 may reject the generative MI.M response. This
embedding based on a generative MLM prompt. Block 710 functionality may previde an automatic verification of the
may include functionality similar to block 520 of FIG. 5. At generative MI.M response. If the generative MT.M response
block 720, the generative response subsystem 118 may is not similar to any of the relevant documents selected by
select, from multiple documents stored in the cloud-based the generative response subsystem 118 during the selection,
content management platform 100, a subset of the multiple re-ranking, or refining process, or similar to any of the
documents. One or more documents in the subsel may document portions, then the generative MLM response may
include an associated query embedding. ‘lhe selection of the not be of’ sufficient quality or relevancy, and thus, the
subset may be based on the query embedding of the gen- generative response subsystem 118 may reject the generative
crative MLM prompt of block 710 being within a threshold MLM response. The generative response subsystem 118
similarity from a query embedding associated with a docu- may then reattempt the method 700 to generate a generative
ment of the multiple documents. Block 720 may include MLM response that is more relevant, accurate, or of a higher
functionality similar to block 530 of FIG. 5. At block 730, quality.
the generative response subsystem 118 may select, from the : a
subset of documents of block 720, a second subset of 10126] In some embodiments, determining whether two
documents. The selection of the second. subset may be based query embeddings are within a threshold similarity nay
on an access permission of a document in the first subset of include p crf ormung a nearest neighbor search, d Ctermuming a
documents. Block 730 may include functionality similar to cosine similarity between the query embeddings, or some
block 530 of LG. 5. other calculation that can determine a distance between
multiple query embeddings.
[0123] At block 740, the generative response subsystem “ a
118 may input the generative MI.M prompt from block 710 [0127] the generative response subsystem us may accept
and the second subset of documents [rom block 730 into a multiple types of user queries as prompts for a generative
generative MI.M 120. Block 740 may include functionality MLM 120 in order to provide generative answers. One type
similar to block $40 of VIG, 5. At block 750, the generative of user query may include a prompt to generate meaning
response subsystem 118 may generale, using the generative from content. Generating meaning from content may include
MLM, a generative MLM response. Block 750 may include generating text or other data, based on documents on the
functionality similar to block 550 of EIG. 5. platform 100, that helps the prompting user to use content on
. the platform 100 without having, to consume a large amount
[0124] In some embodiments, a document from the first of the content manually. Prompts of this type may include
subset of documents in block 720, or from the second subset commands such as “summarize,” “prepare,” “explain,”
of documents in block 730, may include one or more “catch me up,” or other commands. For example, these types
document portions. A document portion of the one or more of prompts may include “Summarize Sales-Report-7” where
document portions may include an associated query embed- Sales-Report-7 is a file, “Prepare me for my upcoming
ding. An embedding model-which may be the same embed- meeting,” “Catch me up on Project Blue,” etc.
ding model as, or may be another instance of the same . :
embedding model as, the embedding model of block 710— 0128] Another type of user query may include answerlng
may have generated the query embedding associated with a specific question. about the content. These types of prompts
the document portion. The method 700 may further include may provide a Spee fic answer to a question where the
the generative response subsystem 118 selecting, from the answer can be found in one or more of the documents on the
one or more documents, a subset of document portions. The platform 100 ae r omipts of this type may include What is the
generalive response subsystem’s 118 selection of this subset maximum file size you cane load tot he website?"" “Where
of document portions may be based on the query embedding, can I find the sales reports?” “Who is in charge of document
of block 710 being within a threshold similarity [rom a query support services?” cte.
embedding of a document portion in the subset of document [0129] Another type of user query may include informa-
portions. In some embodiments. block 740 may include the tion synthesis. These types of prompts request the generative
generalive response subsystem 118 inpulling the generative response subsystem to gather information from multiple
MLM prompt of block 710 and the subset of document documents on the platform 100 and combine the gathered
portions into the generative MLM 120. The generative information in a concise manner to answer the query.
MLM 120 may then generate the generative MLM response Prompts of this type may include “Show me all files related
in block 750 based on these inputs. to sales,” “Summarize the folder/documents/sales-reports/,”

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
14
“Explain Project Blue to me,” “Prepare me for my meeting model, a smaller set of relevant documents (as compared to
on Tuesday about project timelines,” “Organize my files,” all documents accessible to a user), and gencrating responses
etc. to the user’s generative MI.M prompts using a generative
[0130] FIG. 8 illustrates one example of a user interface MIM 120. As a consequence, computing resources and
800. The user interface 800 may include a user interface of network bandwidth required by unnecessary transfer of
the platform 100 that is displayed on a client 140-1. Lhe user documents inside the cloud-based content management plat-
interface 800 may be configured to allow a user to submit a form and downloads from server to client are reduced or
generative MLM prompt and receive a generative MLM eliminated.
response according to the disclosure regarding the methods [0135] In some implementations of the disclosure, the
500. 600, or 700. platform 100 may preemptively generate personalized gen-
[0131] The user interface 800 may include atext input box erative MLM prompts for a user based on the documents in
802-1. A user of the platform 100 may input the generative cloud storage that the user can access. These personalized
MLM prompt in the text input box 802-1 and submit the prompts may include generative MIM prompts that the user
generative MI.M prompt to the cloud content management may find useful or helpful because they are tailored to the
system 110. The generative response subsystem 118 may user and may be based on recent activity in documents of the
perform one or more steps of the methods 500, 600, or 700 platform 100 that the user can access. The user may then
and generate a generative MLM response. ‘he cloud content user a user interface of the platform 100 to submit one of
management system 110 may send the generative MLM these generative MLM prompts to the platform 100 so the
response to the client 140-1, which may display the genera- platform 100 can generate a generalive MLM response using
tive MLM response in a text box 804-1. The text box 804-1 a generative MLM 120.
can include text content 806 that provides a response to the [0136] FIG. 9 is a flowchart illustrating an cxample
user's generative MLM prompt from the text input box method 900 of providing personalized prompts to users
802-1. based on documents in cloud storage, in accordance with
[0132] The text box 804-1 may include text content 808 implementations disclosed herein. For convenience, the
that includes one or more citations lo documents in the cloud operations of the flowchart are described with reference to a
storage of the platform 100 that support the text content 806 system that performs the operations. This system may
ol the generative MLM response. ‘I'he cilations text content include various components of various computer systems,
808 may include links to those documents, and the user may such as the personalized prompt subsystem 114. Moreover,
interact with those links using the user interface 800 (e.g., by while operations of method 900 are shown in a particular
clicking on the links) to open up the documents in the user order, this is not meant to be limiting. One or more opera-
interface 800 or some other user interface provided on a tions may be reordered, omitted, or added.
display device of the client 140-1. In some cases, the text [0137] At block 910. the personalized prompt subsystem
content 806 or the citation text content 808 may include 114 may select one or more documents stored in a cloud-
highlighting or some other indication that may indicate based content management platform based on a selection
which document(s) support which text content 806 of the criterion. These one or more documents may be referred to
generative MI.M response. as the “working set.” In response to a document not con-
[0133] As can be seen in FIG. 8, the user may input, into forming to the selection criterion, the personalized prompt
a second text input box 802-2, another generative MI.M subsystem 114 may exclude the document from the working
prompt. This second generative MI.M prompt may include, sel,
as is shown in FIG. 8, a follow-up prompt that seeks more [0138] In some embodiments, the personalized prompt
information about the first generative MI.M response shown subsystem 114 may select documents for inclusion in the
in the first text box 804-1. ‘The generative response subsys- working sel in response to the personalized prompt subsys-
tem 118 may use the generative MLM 120 to generate tem 114 determining thal one or more users may have
another generative MLM response and provide it to the interest in that specific set of documents. A user may have
client 140-1, to display on the user interface 800 in text box more interest in documents that have been created, opened,
804-2. As can also be seen in FIG. 8, the citation text content or modified more recently than documents that were created
808 of the second text box 804-2 contains a different subset long ago or documents that have not been opened or
of documents than those of the first text box 804-1. This modified recently. A user may have more interest in docu-
indicates that a different subset of documents were used to ments that the user itself created. opened, or modified. A user
generate the second generative MLM response. may have interest in documents that other users created,
[0134] Providing generative answers using a generative opened, or modified. A user may have more interest in
MLM 120, as discussed herein, may provide a user with documents that relate to documents that were created,
verifiable responses to a prompt processed by a generative opened, or modified recently. The selection criterion may
MI.M 120 and that focuses on relevant and accessible assist the personalized prompt subsystem 114 in determining
documents in a user’s cloud storage on a cloud-based which documents may interest a user.
content management platform 100. As such, the efficiency of [0139] In one embodiment, the selection criterion may
cloud-based content management platforms 100 is include the metadata associated with the document including
increased, and user collaboration is expedited. In addition, a last modified date that is within a predetermined. time
by eliminating time-consuming user searching and review- threshold. ‘Thus, the personalized prompt subsystem 114
ing of numerous documents and. by using generative MLMs may exclude a document if the document was last modified
120 to perform tasks on the platform. the use of processing beyond the predetermined time threshold. The selection
resources is improved, and memory consumption is reduced. criterion may include the metadata associated with the
In addition, providing generative answers may include document including a last opened date that is within a
determining, using query embeddings from an embedding predetermined time threshold. The selection criterion may

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
15
include the metadata associated with the document including In one embodiment, the document may include multiple
acreation date that is within a predetermined time threshold. pages (c.g., the document may include a word processing
The creation date may include the date or time when the document or a PDF file). The selected document portion
document was generated on the platform 100 or uploaded to may include a predetermined number of pages. For example,
the platform 100. the predetermined number of pages may include one page,
[0140] In some embodiments, the selection criterion may two pages, three pages. four pages, or five or more pages.
include the metadata associated with the document including The pages may include the first pages in the document, or
a date when the document was last commented on by a user pages indicated by the metadata of the document. In some
that is within a predetermined time threshold. ‘The cloud embodiments, the portion of the document selected in block
content management system 110 may allow users to com- 920 may include a paragraph, a sentence. a section, or some
ment ona document. A comment may include a portion of other portion of the document. In some embodiments, the
data that may include text and may be associated with a selected portion of the document may include the entire
document or a document portion. The comment may allow contents of the document.
a user to provide data relating to a document without [0146] In one embodiment, block 920 may include the
modifying the document’s contents. In some embodiments, personalized prompt subsystem 114 retrieving a query
the document’s metadata may not store a date or time at embedding associated with a document in the working sct.
which the document was last commented. on, but the cloud The query embedding may include the query embedding
content management system 110 may process the comments generated by an embedding model as part of a document
associated with a document to determine the dale and Gime preparation process performed by the cloud content man-
of the last comment associated with the document. agement system 110, as discussed herein. Block 920 may
[0141] The scloction criterion may include a query embed- include the personalized prompt subsystem 114 generating,
ding associated with a document being within a threshold via the embedding model, a query embedding based on a
similarity to a query embedding of a document that a user portion of the document in the working set. Block 920 may
has created, opened, or modified within a threshold time include, responsive to the query embedding of the document
period. The selection criterion may include a query embed- portion being within a threshold similarity from the retrieved
ding, associated with a document being within a threshold query embedding associated with the document, selecting
similarity to a query embedding of search terms thal a user the portion of the document. This process of selecting a
has recently searched on the platform 100. In response to a document portion only if the document portion’s query
document’s query embedding being within the threshold embedding is similar to the document may help prevent the
similarity, the document may be included in the working set. personalized prompt subsystem 114 from selecting docu-
[0142] In one embodiment, a predetermined time thresh- ment portions that are not similar to the document they are
old may be a week. Thus, any document that has not been. contained in and, thus, may prevent the personalized prompt
modified within the last week may be excluded from the subsystem 114 from expending computing resource on using
working set. The predetermined time threshold may include decument portions that may nol be relevant to the docu-
any amount of time or time period. For example, the time ments in the working sel.
threshold may include within the last day. within the last two [0147] In some embodiments, block 920 may include the
days, within the last three days, within the last week, within personalized prompt subsystem 114 retrieving query embed-
the last two weeks, within the last month, or within the last dings associated. with the documents im the working set, and
year, or other length of time. ‘he time threshold may include each document in the working has at least one associated
a specified day, two days, three days, week, two weeks, query embedding. Block 920 may include the personalized
month, year, or other time period. prompt subsystem 114 generating, using the embedding
[0143] A document in the working sct may include mcta- model, a query embedding based on a portion of the docu-
data that may indicate an owner of the document. The ment in the working sct. Block 920 may include, responsive
document owner may be a user of the platform 100 that has to the query embedding of the document portion being
ownership over the document. Tlaving ownership over the within a threshold similarity from at Ieast one of the
document may include having permissions to open, modify, retrieved query embeddings associated with the documents
delete, or otherwise act on the document. [aving, ownership in the working set, the personalized prompt subsystem 114
may include having permissions to determine which users of selecting the document portion. This process of selecting a
the platform 100 can open, modily, delete, or otherwise act decument portion based on its similarity to al least one of the
on the document. In some embodiments, the metadata of the documents’ query embeddings in the working sel may help
documents in the working set may indicate that at least two select document portions that are similar to documents in the
documents in the working set have different owners. Thus, working sel.
the working set may include multiple documents, some of [0148] At block 930, the personalized prompt subsystem
which may have different owners. This may allow the 114 may generale a generalive MLM prompt using a gen-
personalized prompt subsystem 114 to generate personalized eralive MLM 120. Generating the generative MLM prompt
prompts based on documents other than those owned by a may be based on the selected portion of the document from
single user. block 920. In some embodiments, the generative MLM
[0144] Insome embodiments, the working set may include prompt may be based on a second generative MLM prompt.
one or more documents stored in the same [older on the The second generative MLM prompt may include a com-
platform 100. ‘The working set may include all documents mand to gencrate a generative MLM prompt about the
stored in the folder. Documents stored outside of the folder selected portion of the document of block 920.
may be excluded from the working set. [0149] In some embodiments, the command to generate
[0145] At block 920, the personalized prompt subsystem the generative MLM prompt about the selected document
114 may select a portion of a document in the working set. portion may include a command to generate a generative

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
16
MLM prompt to summarize the working set. For example, ment or folder icon. The selectable option may appear in a
the generated generative MLM prompt may be the text toolbar of the user interface. The toolbar may appear above
“Summarize the following files:” appended with a list of or to the side ofa list of document or folder icons in the user
documents that make up the working set. The command to interface of the cloud file system. The selectable option may
generate the generative MI.M prompt may include a com- appear in a sharing configuration pop up of the user inter-
mand to generate a generative MIM prompt to identify face. A sharing configuration pop up may include a user
modifications to the working set. For example, the generated interface component thal appears in response to a user
generative MLM prompt may be the text “What changes attempting to give another user permission to view, modity,
have been made to X in the last week?” where “X” is or otherwise access a document or folder of the cloud
replaced. with a list of documents in the working sect. The storage. The generative MLM prompt of these selectable
generative MLM prompt may include other types of com- options may include a generative MLM prompt that was
mands discussed herein, such as commands to prepare the associated with the document, document portion, folder, or
user for an upcoming moecting using the working sct, com- other group of documents at block 940.
mands to generate a response to a question about the [9154] In some implementations, a generative MI.M
working, set. showing the user files related to the working prompt generated using the method 900 may apply to a
set, or other commands. single user. In other implementations, the generative MI.M
[0150] At block 940, the personalized prompt subsystem promp! may apply to multiple users. The multiple users may
114 may associate the generative MT.M prompt generated in belong to the same organization, a team within the organi-
block 930 with the document portion selected in block 920. zation, or some other group. he multiple users may include
Associating the generative MI.M prompt with the document users that have the same or a similar working sct.
portion may include associating the generative MI.M [0155] FIG. 10 illustrates one cxample of a user interface
prompt with the document that contains the document 1000. The user interface 1000 may include a user interface
portion. Associating the generative MLM prompt with the of the platform 100 that is displayed on a client 140-1, ...
decument portion may include associating the generative , 140-m. The user interface 1000 may be configured to
MLM prompt with the working sct (c.g., associating the display one or more personalized generative MI.M prompts
document portion with each document of the working set). that were generated according, to the method 900.
Associating the gencrative MLM prompt with the document [0156] ‘The user interface 1000 can include a text input
portion. document, or working sct may include generating field 1002. ‘The text input tield 1002 may include a search
and storing a logical link or other reference data between the field or some other type of text input field. As can be seen
prompt and the document portion, document, or working sct in FIG. 10, the user has not provided any input to the text
so that the cloud content management system 110 can input ficld 1002. However, the user interface 1000 has still
quickly and efficiently find one from the other. By associ- caused sclectable options 1004-1, . . . , 1004-3 to be
ating the generative MI.M prompt with the document por- presented to the user that is using the user interface 1000
tion, document, or working sel, the personalized prompt when the user accesses the platform 100 though the user
subsystem 114 may quickly determine what document por- interface 1000. Tach selectable option 1004-1, ... , 1004-3
tions or documents the personalized prompt subsystem 114 may include a generative MI.M prompt. The generative
can use as the context for the generative MLM prompt when MLM prompt may have been generated according to the
inputting the gencrative MLM prompt into a generative method 900. A user of the user interface 1000 may select one
MLM 120 to provide gencrative answers. of the selectable options 1004-1, . .. , 1004-3. In response,
[0151] In one embodiment, at block 950, the cloud content the user interlace 1000 may automatically populate the text
management system 110 may cause the generative MLM ioput field 1002 with the text of the selected generative
prompt of block 940 to be presented to one or more users of MLM prompt so the user can submit the generative MLM
the cloud-based content management platform 100 when the prompt to the cloud content management system 110 in
one or more users access the platform 100. This may include order to receive a generative MLM response, as discussed
the cloud content management system 110 providing. on a herein.
user interface, a selectable option to input the generative [0157] The user interface 1000 may include a list 1006 of
MLM prompt into a text input field of the user interface. The one or more documents stored on the platform 100 that are
user interface may include a user interface of a client 140-1. accessible to the user. Thus. the functionality of presenting
‘The text input field may capture the generative MLM generative MT.M prompts to the user and allowing the user
prompt and submit it to the cloud content management to submit generative MLM prompts to the cloud content
system 110 over the computer network 150. management system 110 may be integrated into other func-
[0152] The selectable option may appear below a search tionality of the platform 100.
field of the user interface. The search field may include a text [0158] In some embodiments, the platform 100 may gen-
input field used lor performing searching [unctionalily on erate suggested generative MI.M prompts for a user in real
the cloud file system of the platform 100. The selectable time based on a variety of factors, including data that the
option may appear underneath a search result of the user user has input into a user interface of the platform 100 or
interface. decuments in cloud storage of the platform 100 that the user
[0153] The selectable option may appear in a hover card. can access. These suggested generative MLM prompts may
A hover card may include a user interface component that include prompts that the user may find helpful because they
pops up on the user interface in response to a user hovering may improve the user’s interaction with the platform 100 by
a mouse cursor over a document or a folder icon in the user providing prompts in real time that may improve on the
interface of the cloud file system. The selectable option may prompts the user is currently inputting into the platform 100
appear in a context menu that may appear on the user or prompts that the user has recently input. The user may
interface in response to the user right-clicking on a docu- then user a user interface to submit one of these generative

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
17
MLM prompis to the platform 100 so the cloud content one or more selected second documents may be referred to
management system 110 can generate a generative response as the “working set.” In response to a document of the one
using, a generative MI.M 120. or more first documents not conforming, to the selection
[0159] FIG. 11 is a flowchart illustrating an example criteria, the real-time anticipation subsystem 116 may
method 1100 of providing real-time anticipation of user exclude the document from the working set. Selecting the
interest in information contained in documents in cloud working set may include functionality similar to block 910
storage, in accordance with implementations disclosed of FIG, 9. For example, the selection criterion may include
herein. For convenience, the operations of the flowchart are _ criteria related to a last modified date of a document, a last
described with reference to a system that performs the opened date of a document, or a last commented-on date of
operations. This system may include various components of — a document. The sclection criterion may include a query
various computer systems, such as the real-time anticipation | embedding of a document being similar to a query embed-
subsystem 116. Morcover, while operations of methed 900 — ding of a document the user has recently accessed, or the
are shown in a particular order, this is not meant to be query embedding of the document being similar to search
limiting. One or more operations may be reordered, omitted, terms the user has recently searched on the platform 100.
or added. The selection criterion may include selecting fram docu-
[0160] At block 1110, the real-time anticipation subsystem ments that a user has permission to open, modify, or other-
116 may identify an action of a user of the cloud-based wise access. The selection criterion may include selecting
content management platform 100 with respect to one or documents that are in the same folder in the cloud storage.
more first documents of multiple documents. ‘he multiple [0165] Inone implementation, where the action of the user
documents may be stored at the platform 100. The action of includes text data input into the user interface, the selection
the user may include an action of a user on a user interface. criterion of block 1122 may include a similarity to the text
The user interface may include a user interface of a client data. The real-time anticipation subsystem 116 may identify
140-1, .. . , 140-12. one or more documents stored in the cloud-based content
[9161] Tn one implementation, the action of the user may management platform 100 and may rank these one or more
include the user inputting text data into a text input field of documents based on the text data. For example, the real-time
the user interface. The text data may include a search term anticipation subsystem 116 may input a search query, based
being input into a search field of the user interface or some on the text data, into a search functionality of the platform
other text input field. ‘he action of the user may include the 100. The search functionality may return a list of search
user selecting a document or a folder displayed by the user results. ‘The list of search resulls may include documents
interface. The action of the user may include the user stored in the cloud storage of the platform 100. The cloud
opening a document or folder displayed by the user inter- content management system 110 may rank the documents
face. The action of the user may include the user hovering based on the text data, which may include ranking the results
a mouse cursor over a document or folder. The action of the from most relevant to the text data to the least relevant. The
user may include some other action using the user interface cloud content management system 110 may determine rel-
in order to interact with the platform 100. The client 140-1 evancy by comparing a query embedding of the text data to
may send the data identifying, the action of the user to the a query embedding associated with the document (which
cloud. content management system 110 over the computer may include a query embedding of a document portion of the
network 150. document). The cloud content management system 110 may
[0162] ‘Lhe one or more first documents of the multiple then select a threshold number of highest-ranked documents
documents stored at the platform 100 may include docu- from the one or more documents. The threshold number of
ments that pertain to a user's organization. For example, the documents may include one document, two documents,
user may pertain to an organization. and the one or more first three documents, four documents, five documents, or six or
documents may include the documents on the platform that more documents. These selected highest ranked documents
have been created, uploaded, or otherwise provided by the may form the working sct.
organization or the users of the platform 100 that pertain to [0166] Atblock 1124, the real-time anticipation subsystem
the organization. 116 may select a portion of a document in the working set.
[0163] At block 1120, the real-time anticipation subsystem The selection may be based on the action of the user of block
116 may predict user interest in content of one or more 910. Fer example, where the action of the user includes input
second documents of the plurality of documents stored at the text dala, an embedding model may generate a query embed-
platform 100. The one or more second documents may at ding based on the text data and may compare the query
least partially overlap with the one or more first documents. embedding to a query embedding of a portion of a document
The real-time anticipation subsystem 116 may anticipate, in in the working set. If the query embeddings are within a
real-time, information or documents the user may be inter- threshold similarity, the portion of the document may be
ested in based on the action of the user. This may allow the _ selected. In another example, where the action of the user
user to retrieve relevant information from the platform 100, includes a sclection of a document, an embedding model
in real time, without having to search the documents stored may generate a query embedding based on the document and
by the platform 100 or without having to be familiar with the may compare the query embedding to a query embedding of
documents or the arrangement of the documents on the a portion of a document in the working set. If the query
platform 100. embeddings are within a threshold. similarity, the portion of
[0164] Block 1120 may include one or more subblocks the document may be selected.
1122-1126. At block 1122, the real-time anticipation sub- [0167] In some implementations, block 1124 may include
system 116 may select the one or more second documents generating a query embedding based on a portion of the
stored in the cloud-based content management platform 100. document. Block 1124 may include retrieving a query
The selection may be based on a selection criterion. These embedding associated with the document that includes the

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
18
portion of the document. Block 1124 may include compar- may allow the cloud content management system 110 to
ing the query embedding of the document portion to the provide the generative MLM prompt to other users of the
query embedding of the document and calculating a simi- platform 100 as a suggested prompt.
larity of the two query embeddings. Ifthe query embeddings [0174] As an example of the method 1100, at block 1110,
are within a threshold similarity, the real-time anticipation the real-time anticipation subsystem 116 may identify an
subsystem 116 may select the document portion. This selec- action of the user. The action of the user may include the
lion process may help select document portions that are user inputting text data into a user interface of the platform
similar to the documents that they are contained within, 100. The text data may be the words “file size.” At block
which may indicate that the document portion is relevant to 1120, the real-time anticipation subsystem 116 may predict
the action of the user of block 910. the user’s interest in content in one or more documents that
[0168] In onc embodiment, real-time anticipation subsys- the user’s organization hosts on the platform 100. ‘This may
tem 116 may compare the query embedding of the document include, at block 1122, the real-time anticipation subsystem
portion to the respective query embedding of each document 116 selecting one or more sccond documents stored in the
in the working set. The real-time anticipation subsystem 116 cloud storage of the platform 100. ‘hese selected documents
may determine whether the query embedding of the docu- may form the working set. The selection criteria may include
ment portion is within a threshold similarity to any of the documents that have been opened within the past week and
documents’ respective query embeddings. If so, the real- documents that the user has permission to view. At block
time anticipation subsystem 116 may select the document 1124, the real-time anticipation subsystem 116 may select a
portion. his selection process may help select document document portion from the working set, and the document
portions that are similar to at least one of the documents in portion may include a paragraph that includes information
the working set. about file sizes. The real-time anticipation subsystem 116
[0169] Insome embodiments, the portion of the document may select this document portion in response to a query
may include multiple document portions. The multiple embedding of the document portion being within a threshold
document portions may be contained in different documents similarity to a query embedding of the text data, i.e., the
of the working set. In some embodiments, each document words “file size.” At block 1126, the real-time anticipation
portion may be contained in a different document of the subsystem 116 may input the paragraph selected in block
working set. In one embodiment, the portion of the docu- 1124 into the generative MLM 120. For example, the input
ment selected. in block 930 may be the enlire document. may be in the format:
[0170] At block 1126, the real-time anticipation subsystem [0175] Statement: [the paragraph selected in block
116 may generate a generative MLM prompt via a genera- 1124]
tive MLM 120. The generative MLM 120 may generate the [0176] Prompt: Generate a question about the previous
gencrative MLM prompt based on the selected portion of the statement
document of block 1124. The generative MLM prompt may . .
include a generative MI.M prompt that the user may find [0177] The gencrative MLM 120 may generate a gencra-
helpful and relevant to the action of the user of block 1110. tive MLM prompt based on this input. The generative MLM
[0171] Tn one embodiment, block 1126 may include gen- prompt may include What is the maximum file size allowed
eraling a second generative MLM prompt. ‘This second by the website?” At block 1130, the real-time anticipation
generative MLM prompt may include context for the gen- subsystem 116 may cause this generative MI M prompt to be
erative MLM 120. ‘The context may include data identifying presented to the user in relation to the action of the user, Tn
the user action and the portion of the document selected in this example, this includes the client 140-1 receiving, the
block 1124. The second generative MLM prompt may generative MLM prompl over the computer network 150.
include a command for the generative MLM 120 to generate The client's 140-1 user interlace may display the generative
a generative MLM prompt about the action of the user. MLM prompt as a selectable option below the text input
Block 1126 may include the real-time anticipation subsys- field where the user inputted the text data so the user can
tem 116 inputting the second prompt into the generative submit the generative MLM prompt to a generative MLM
MIM 120. In response, the generative MIM 120 may 120 of the platform 100 and receive a generative MLM
generale the first generative MLM prompt. response.
[0172] At block 1130, the real-time anticipation subsystem [0178] FIG. 12 is a flowchart illustrating an example
116 may cause the generative MLM prompt generated in method 1200 ofa client-side method of providing real-time
block 1126 to be presented to the user in relation ta the anticipation of user interest in information contained in
action of the user. Block 1130 may include the cloud content documents in cloud storage, in accordance with implemen-
management system 110 sending the generative MLM tations disclosed herein. For convenience, the operations of
prompt to the user interface on the client 140-1 so the user _ the flowchart are described with reference to a system that
interface can display the generative MILM prompt to the performs the operations. This system may include various
user. The user interface may display the prompt as a select- components of various computer systems. such as the real-
able option. time anticipation subsystem 116. Moreover, while opera-
[0173] In some embodiments, the real-time anticipation tions of method 1200 are shown in a particular order, this is
subsystem 116 may be further configured to store the not meant to be limiting. One or more operations may be
generative MLM prompt that the real-time anticipation reordered, omitted, or added.
subsystem 116 generated. during block 1126. ‘Lhe real-time [0179] At block 1210, a user interlace of a client 140-1
anticipation subsystem 116 may store the generative MLM may receive an action of a user. The user input may include
prompt in the cloud storage servers 130-1, . .. , 130-%. The text data, the selection of a document or folder, etc. As
real-time anticipation subsystem 116 may store the genera- discussed above in relation to block 1110 of FIG. 11, the user
tive MI.M prompt in a generative MT.M prompt library. This interface may include a text field where a user of the client

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
19
140-1 may enter the text data, a list of documents where the 140-1 providing the selectable option may include the user
user can select a document or folder, cte. interface displaying the selectable option in response to the
[0180] At block 1220, the client 140-1 may send data user selection of the folder. For example, in response to the
identifying the action of the user to the cloud content — user right-clicking on the folder, the user interface may
management sysiem 110. The client 140-1 may send the data display a context menu with the selectable option “xplain
identifying the action of the user over the computer network the changes that occurred in this folder within the past
150. The cloud content management system 110 may receive week.”
the data identifying the user action at block 1110 of FIG. IL. [0185] ‘The user interface may display the selectable
‘The cloud content management system 110 may perform option in other areas of the user interface. For example, the
one or more blocks 1110-1130 of the method 1100 of FIG. user interface may display the selectable option in a hover
11. At block 1130, the cloud content management system ecard. A hover card may include a user interface component
110 may provide a gencrative MLM prompt to the client that, in response to the user selecting the document on the
140-1. user interface, displays part of the selected document or
[0181] At block 1230, the client 140-1 may receive, over information about the selected document in a small window
the computer network 150, the generative MLM prompt (the “card”). The selectable option may be included in the
from the cloud content management system 110. At block hover card. The user interface may display the selectable
1240, the client 140-1 may provide, on the user interlace of option in a selection toolbar. The selection toolbar may
the client 140-1, a selectable option. he selectable option include a toolbar at the top of a list of documents or at the
may include an option to send the generative MLM prompt top of a window. ‘The selection toolbar may include options
to the cloud content management system 110 over the such as “Create a new document.” “Upload a document,”
computer network 150. “Delete a document,” “Share a document,” etc.
[0182] In one embodiment, the client 140-1 may display [0186] The method 1200 may include the clicnt 140-1
the user interface of the platform 100, and the user interface sending the generative MILM prompt received in block 1230
may include a search field wherein the user of the client to the cloud content management system 110 over the
140-1 can input text or other data to perform searches of the computer network 150. The methed 1200 may include the
documents or other data on the platform 100. At block 1240, client 140-1 receiving, from the cloud content management
the user interface may provide the selectable option as a text system 110, a generative MLM response. The generative
box. ‘lhe text box may include the generative MLM prompt. MLM response may include a generative MLM response as
In some embodiments, the user interface may display the discussed in relation to block 550 of FIG. 5. The generative
text box below a scarch ficld of the user interface. For MLM response may include a citation to a document stored
example, in response to the user typing the user input in the on the platform L00.
search field, even before the user submits the user input to [0187] FIG. 13A illustrates an example of a user interface
the platform 100, the client 140-1 may send the user input 1300. The user interface 1300 may include a user interface
to the platform 100 (block 1210) and receive the generative of the platform 100 that is displayed on a client 140-1. The
MLM prompt (block 1230) and display the generative MI.M user interface 1300 may be configured to receive a user
prompt in a text box below the search field so the user can action and present a generative MI.M prompt as a selectable
easily see the suggested generative MLM prompt. In one option to the user.
embodiment, the user interface may display the text box [0188] | As can be seen in FIG. 13A, the user interface 1300
below one or more search results. For example, after the user may include a text input box 1302 where a user may input
has submitted the user input to the platform 100 and received text. In PIG. 13, the user has input the text data “file size”
search results in response, the client 140-1 may display the into the text input box 1302. Even before the user submits
gencrative MLM prompt below the received scarch results. the lext data to the cloud content management system 110 as
The clicnt 140-1 may send the uscr input in block 1010 or a search query, the user interface 1300 has sent the text dala
receive the generative MLM prompt in block 1230 asyn- to the cloud content management system 110 as data iden-
chronously from a search that the user of the client 140-1 tifying an action of a user in order to generate a generative
performs using the user interface. MLM prompt as discussed in relation to the method 1100.
[0183] The user interface may include a list of documents Hore, the generative MLM prompt may include “What is the
or folders stored by the platform 100. The documents may maximum file size allowed by the website?” The user
include documents stored in the same folder or may include interface 1300 receives the generative MIM response as
documents listed in search results in response to a user’s presents it as a selectable option 1304. The user may then see
search of the platform 100. At block 1240, the client 140-1 the selectable option 1304 and select it (e.g. by clicking on
providing the selectable option may include the user inter- the selectable option 1304). In response, the user interface
face displaying the selectable option in response to a user 1300 may send the generative MLM response to the gen-
selection of a document in the list of documents. ‘The user eralive response subsystem 118. The user interlace 1300
selection may include the user leli-clicking on the docu- may include a list 1306 of one or more documents stored on
ment, tapping the document on a touchscreen, right-clicking the platform 100 that are accessible to the user. ‘hus, the
on the document, tapping and holding the document on a functionality of presenting generative MLM prompts to the
touchscreen, or some other user selection. For example. in user and allowing the uscr to submit generative MLM
response to the user right-clicking on a document in the list, prompts to the cloud content management system 110 may
the user interface may display a context menu, and the be integrated into other functionality of the platform 100.
context menu may include the selectable option of “Sum- [0189] FIG. 13B depicts another example of the user
marize this document.” interface 1300. In this example, the action of the user is the
[0184] In one embodiment, the user interface may include user right-clicking on a document 1308 in the list 1306 of
a folder stored by the platform 100. At block 1240, the client documents. Tn response, the user interface 1300 may display

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
20
a context menu 1310. The context menu may include processor implementing other instruction sets or processors
multiple options pertaining to the document 1308. As can be implementing a combination of instruction sets. The pro-
seen in FIG. 13B, the context menu 1310 may include cessing, device 1402 can also be one or more special-purpose
multiple selectable options that include generative MI.M processing devices such as an application specific integrated
prompts 1312-1, 1312-2 that are associated with the docu- circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (MPGA), a
ment 1308. These selectable options 1312-1, 1312-2 include digital signal processor (DSP), network processor, or the
“Summarize this document” and “Show me all related files.” like. The processing device 1402 is configured to execute
In response to the user selecting one of these selectable instructions 1426 (e.g., for providing generative answers
options 1312-1, 1312-2, the user interface may submit the using a generalive MLM) for perlorming the operations
generative MLM prompt of the selected selectable option discussed herein.
1312-1, 1312-2 to the generative response subsystem 118. [0194] ‘The computer system 1400 can lurther include a
[0190] Lt should be noted that although the cloud content network interface device 1408. he computer system 1400
management system 110 is depicted herein as including one also can include a video display unit 1410 (e.g., a liquid
generative MLM 120, the cloud content management system crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CR1)), an input
110 may include multiple generative MLMs 120. Each device 1412 (c.g., a keyboard, and alphanumeric keyboard,
generative MLM 120 of the multiple generative MLMs 120 a motion sensing input device, touch screen), a cursor
may have different configurations. Dittcrent methods 200, control device 1414 (c.g., a mouse), and a signal generation
300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 900, 1100, or 1200 may use device 1418 (e.g.. a speaker).
different generative MI.Ms 120, and different blocks of the [0195] ‘Lhe data storage device 1416 can include a non-
same method 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 900, 1100, or transitory machine-readable storage medium 1424 (also
1200 may use different generative MI.Ms 120. For example, computer-readable storage medium) on which is stored one
the generalive MLM 120 discussed in relation to block 230 or more sets of instructions 1426 (e.g., for providing gen-
of the method 200 may be a different generative MLM 120 erative answers and other functionality disclosed herein)
than the generative MLM 120 discussed in relation to block embodying any one or more of the methodologies or func-
250. In another example, the generative MLM 120 discussed tions described herein. The instructions 1426 can also reside,
in relation to block 230 of the method 200 may be a different completely or at least partially, within the volatile memory
generative MLM 120 than the generative MLM 120 dis- 1404 and/or within the processing device 1402 during
cussed in relation to blocks 540 or 550 of the method 500. execution thereof by the computer system 1400, the volatile
[0191] FIG. 14 is a block diagram illustrating an example memory 1404 and the processing device 1402 also consti-
computer system 1400, in accordance with implementations tuting machine-readable storage media. The instructions
of the present disclosure. The computer system 1400 can be 1426 can further be transmitted or received over a network
the cloud content management system 140, a cloud storage 1420 (c.g., computer network 150 of FIG. 1) via the network
server 130-1, ... , 130-n, or a client 140-1, ..., 140-m in interface device 1408.
FIG. 1. The machine can operate in the capacity of a server [0196] In one implementation, the instructions 1426
or an endpoint machine in endpoint-server network envi- include instructions for pre-processing documents in cloud
ronment, or as a peer machine in a peer-to-peer (or distrib- storage for query embeddings, providing personalized gen-
uled) network environment. The machine can be a televi- erative MLM prompts to users based on cloud storage
sion, a personal computer (PC), a tablet PC, a set-top box documents, real-time anticipation of user interest of infor-
(STB), a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a cellular tele- mation contained in cloud storage documents, or providing
phone, a web appliance, a server, a network router, swilch or generative answers that include citation lo source documents
bridge, or any machine capable of executing a set of in cloud storage. While the computer-readable storage
instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to medium 1424 (machine-readable storage medium) is shown
be taken by that machine. Further, while only a single in an example implementation to be a single medium, the
machine is illustrated, the term “machine” shall also be terms “computer-readable storage medium” and “machine-
taken to include any collection of machines that individually readable storage medium” should be taken to include a
or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions to single medium or multiple media (c.g., a centralized or
perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed distributed database, and/or associated caches and servers)
herein. that store the one or more sets of instructions. The terms
[0192] The example computer system 1400 includes a “computer-readable storage medium” and “machine-read-
processing device 1402, a volatile memory 1404 (e.g., able storage medium” shall also be taken to include any
read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, dynamic random medium that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying a set
access memory (DRAM) such as synchronous DRAM of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause
(SDRAM), double data rate (DDR SDRAM), or DRAM the machine to perform any one or more of the methodolo-
(RDRAM), etc.), a non-volatile memory 1406 (¢.g., Hash gies of the present disclosure. The terms “computer-readable
memory, slalic random access memory (SRAM), etc.), and storage medium” and “machine-readable storage medium”
a data storage device 1416, which communicate with each shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to,
other via a bus 1430. solid-state memories, optical media, and magnetic media.
[0193] The processing device 1402 represents one or more [0197] In the foregoing description, numerous details are
general-purpose processing devices such as a microproces- set forth. It will be apparent. however, to one of ordinary
sor, central processing unit, graphics processing unil, or the slall in the art having the benefit of this disclosure, that the
like. More particularly, the processing device 1402 can be a present disclosure can be practiced without these specific
complex instruction set computing (CISC) microprocessor, details. In some instances, well-known structures and
reduced instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessor, devices are shown in block diagram form, rather than in
very long instruction word (VILIW) microprocessor, or a detail, in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
21
[0198] Some portions of the detailed description have characteristic described in connection with the implemen-
been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic repre- tation or embodiment is included in at least one implemen-
sentations of operations on data bits within a computer tation or embodiment. Thus, the appearances of the phrase
memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations “in one implementation” or “in an implementation” or other
are the means used by those skilled in the data processing, similar terms in various places throughout this specification
arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work are not necessarily all referring to the same implementation.
to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here, and Tn addition, the term “or” is intended to mean an inclusive
generally, conceived to be a self-consistent sequence of steps “or” rather than an exclusive “or.” Moreover, the word
leading to a desired result. ‘The steps are those requiring “example” or a similar term are used herein to mean serving
physical manipulations of physical quantitics. Usually, as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design
though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of described herein as an “example” is not necessarily to be
electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, trans- construcd as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or
ferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It designs. Rather, use of the word “cxample” or a similar term
has proven convenient at times, for reasons of common is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.
usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values, elements, [0203] To the extent that the terms “includes,” “includ-
symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like. ing,” “has,” “contains,” variants thereof, and other similar
[0199] It should be borne in mind, however, that all of words are used in cither the detailed description or the
these and similar terms are to be associated with the appro- claims, these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner
priate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels similar to the term “comprising” as an open transition word
applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated other- without precluding any additional or other elements.
wise as apparent from the following discussion, it is appre- [9204] As used in this application, the terms “component,”
ciated that throughout the description, discussions utilizing “module,” “system,” or the like are generally intended to
terms such as “receiving”, “displaying”, “moving”, “adjust- refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware (e.g., a
ing”, “replacing”, “determining”, “playing”, or the like, circuit), software, a combination of hardware and software,
refer to the actions and processes of a computer system, or or an entily related to an operational machine with one or
similar electronic computing device, that manipulates and more specific functionalities. or example, a component can
transforms data represented as physical (¢.g., electronic) be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a
quantitics within the computer system’s registers and memo- processor (e.g., digital signal processor), a processor, an
ries into other data similarly represented as physical quan- object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program,
tities within the computer system memories or registers or and/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an applica-
other such information storage, transmission or display tion running on a controller and the controller can be a
devices. component. One or more components can reside within a
[0200] For simplicity of explanation, the methods are process and/or thread of execution and a component can be
depicted and described herein as a series of acts. However, localized on one computer and/or distributed between two or
acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various more computers. Further, a “device” can come in the form
orders and/or concurrently, and with other acts not presented of specially designed hardware; generalized hardware made
and described herein. Furthermore, not all illustrated acts specialized by the execution of software thereon that enables
can be required to implement the methods in accordance hardware to perform specific functions (e.g., generating
with the disclosed subject matter. In addition, those skilled interest points and/or descriptors), sollware on a compuler
in the art will understand and appreciate that the methods readable medium; or a combination thereol!.
could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated [0205] The aforementioned systems, circuits, modules,
states via a state diagram or events. Additionally, it should and so on have been described with respect lo interact
be appreciated that the methods disclosed in this specifica- between several components and/or blocks. It can be appre-
tion are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture ciated that such systems, circuits, components, blocks, and
to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to so forth can include those components or specified sub-
computing devices. The term article of manufacture. as used components, some of the specified components or sub-
herein, is intended to encompass a computer program acces- components, and/or additional components, and according
sible from any computer-readable device or storage media. to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing.
[0201] Certain implementations of the present disclosure Sub-components can also be implemented as components
also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations communicatively coupled to other components rather than
herein. This apparatus can be constructed for the intended included within parent components (hierarchical). Addition-
purposes, or if can comprise a general purpose compuler ally, it should be noted thal one or more components can be
selectively activated or reconfigured. by 4 computer program combined into a single component providing aggregate
stored. in the computer. Such a compuler program can be functionality or divided. into several separate sub-compo-
stored. in a computer readable storage medium, such as, bul nents, and any one or more middle layers, such as a
not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, management layer, can be provided to communicatively
optical disks, CD-ROMs, and magnetic-optical disks, read- couple to such sub-components in order to provide inte-
only memories (ROMs), random access memorics (RAMs), grated functionality. Any components described herein can
EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type also interact with one or more other components not spe-
of media suitable for storing electronic instructions. cifically described herein but known by those of skill in the
[0202] Reference throughout this specification to “one art.
implementation,” “an implementation,” “some implementa- [0206] It is to be understood that the above description is
tions,” “one embodiment,” “an embodiment,” or “some intended to be illustrative, and not restrictive. Many other
embodiments” mean that a particular feature, structure, or implementations will be apparent to those of skill in the art

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
22
upon reading and understanding the above description. The prises a plurality of document portions, and wherein
scope of the disclosure should, therefore, be determined with sclecting the document is based ona user query input
reference to the appended claims, along with the full scope into the cloud-based content management platform;
of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. and
What is claimed is: for each document portion in the plurality of document
1. A method, comprising: portions:
selecting a portion of a document of a plurality of docu- inputting a set of statement-prompt pairs and the
ments stored in a cloud-based content management document portion into a generative machine Icarn-
_ plallorm; . ing model (MLM),
inputting a sct of cxample statement-prompt pairs and the gencrating, using the gencrative MLM, a gencrative
portion of the document into a generative machine MLM prompt associated with the document por-
learning model (MLM): tion.
lhe ancnaive OM comprising a penerative MEM generating, using an embedding model, a query
: 5 : embedding based on the generative MLM prompl,
prompt associated with the portion or ne documents and
generating. using an embedding model, a first query ; soe : . :
embedding based on the generative MLM prompt; and sone “toc association of he ob ty embedding oh
storing, an association of the first query embedding with ‘ c EAT vide a sequent ‘ro th y the
the portion of the document lor subsequent use by the genera ive © Provide a response fo the user
generative MLM to provide information related to amery. : : .
content of the plurality of documents to users of the 9. The system of claim 8, wherein each duery embedding
cloud-based content management platform. comprises a vector that comprises a plurality of floats.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising associating 10. ‘The system of claim 9, wherein the opera Gions further
the first query embedding with the document, comprise execuling a compression operation on the vector.
3. The method of claim 1. further comprising: 11. The system of claim 8, wherein the document com-
inputting the document into the embedding model; prises a spreadsheet.
generating, using, the embedding model, a second query 12. The system of claim 11, wherein cach document
embedding based on the document; and portion of the plurality of document portion comprises at
storing an association of the second query embedding, least one of:
with the document. a spreadsheet cell in the document:
4. Vhe method of claim 1, wherein the set of example a spreadsheet row in the document; or
slalement-prompt pairs comprises: a spreadsheet column in the document.
a plurality of example statements, and 13. The system of claim 8, wherein the document com-
a plurality of example prompts. wherein cach cxample prises an email.
prompt corresp onds to an cxample statement of the 14. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further
plurality of example statements. comprise: .
§. The method of claim 1, further comprising: ae epee / so .
grouping the portion of the document and the generative storing the plurality of query embeddings on the memory;
MLM prompt into a statement-prompt pair; and determining a completion status of the user query; and
using, the statement-prompt pair to generate another set of responsive to determining that the user query has been
example slatement-prompl pairs. completed, freeing the portion of the memory storing
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the portion of the the plurality of query embeddings. :
document comprises at least one of: 15. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further
a sentence in the document; COMIpTIse:
a paragraph in the document; or storing metadata associated with the document in a meta-
a section in the document. data storage of the cloud-based content management
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the subsequent use by platform; and
the generative MLM compriscs: storing the plurality of embeddings in the metadata stor-
selecting, based on a similarity between the first query age of the cloud-based content management platform.
embedding and a query embedding of user input to the 16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
cloud-based content management platform, the portion storing, instructions that, when executed, cause a processing
of the document associated. with the first query embed- device to:
ding: select a portion of a document stored in a cloud-based
inputting the portion of the document into the generative content management platform,
MLM; and generate, using a generative machine Iearning model
generating, using the penerative MIM, a penerative (MLM), a generative MI.M prompt associated with the
MLM response that comprises a citation to the portion portion of the document;
of the document. generate, using an embedding model, a first query embed-
8. A system, comprising: ding based on the generative MLM prompt; and
a memory; and. storing an association of the first query embedding with
one or more processing devices, coupled to the memory, the document portion for subsequent use by the gen-
configured to perform operations comprising: erative MLM to provide information related to content
selecting a document stored in a cloud-based content of the document to users of the cloud-based content
management platform, wherein the document com- management platform.

US 2025/0103826 Al Mar. 27, 2025
23

17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16,
wherein:

the document comprises an audio file; and

the portion of the document comprises a portion of a

transcript of the audio file.

18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16,
wherein:

the document comprises a video file; and

the portion of the document comprises a portion of a

transcript of the video file.

19. ‘The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16,
wherein generating the generative MLM prompt comprises
inputting. into the generative MLM:

the portion of the document; and

a second generative MI.M prompt commanding, the gen-

erative MLM to generate a query associated with the
portion of the document.

20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16,
wherein generating the generative MLM prompt comprises
inputting. into the generative MLM, an example statement-
prompt pair and the portion of the document.