US 20240135187A1
as) United States
a2) Patent Application Publication (10) Pub. No.: US 2024/0135187 Al
Srinivasan et al. (43) Pub. Date: Apr. 25, 2024
(54) METHOD FOR TRAINING LARGE Publication Classification
LANGUAGE MODELS TO PERFORM (51) Int. Cl
QUERY INTENT CLASSIFICATION ~ GO6N 3 ISOS (2006.01)
GO6F 16/903 2006.01
(71) Applicant: Google LLC, Mountain View, CA (US) GOOF 16/93 (2008 al}
(72) Inventors: Krishna Pragash Srinivasan, Union (52) Oe? (2006.01)
City, CA (US); Michael Bendersky, - “oe
Carnartina C y (us). ‘Anupam ¥: CPC... GO6N 3/0895 (2023.01); GO6F 1690335
Samanta, Mountain View, CA (US); (2019.01); GO6F 1693 C8 Oi: GaBN
Lingrui Liao, Foster City, CA (US); 3/0455 (2023.01)
Luca Bertelli, Redwood City, CA (US); (57) ABSTRACT
Ming-Wei Chang, Redmond, WA (US); Provided. are computing systems, methods, and. platforms
Iftekhar Naim, San Jose, CA (US), that train query processing models, such as large language
Siddhartha Brahma, San Tose, CA models, to perform query intent classification tasks by using
(US); Siamak Shakeri, New York, NY retrieval augmentation and multi-stage distillation. Unla-
U 8); Mongkun Yu, Redwood City, CA beled training examples of querics may be obtained, and a
(US): J ohn Nham, l'remont, CA WU 8): set of the training examples may be augmented with addi-
Karthik Raman, Sunnyvale, CA (US); tional feature annotations to generate augmented training
Raphael Dominik Hoffmann, Los examples. A first query processing model may annotate the
Altos, CA (US) retrieval augmented queries to generate inferred labels for
the augmented training examples. A second query process-
(21) Appl. No.: 18/491,877 ing model may be trained on the inferred labels, distilling the
query processing model that was trained. with retrieval
(22) Filed: Oct. 22, 2023 augmentation into a non-retrieval augmented query process-
ing model. ‘The second. query processing model may anno-
eat tate the entire set of unlabeled training examples. Another
Related U.S. Application Data stage of distillation may train a third query processing model
(60) Provisional application No. 63/418,151, filed on Oct. using the entire set of unlabeled training examples without
21, 2022. retrieval augmentation.
102 700, 1 130
t
WW User Computing Device Server Camputing System
132
“~ 134
416 4] Memory Memory 5 136
ite J
mn
120. 440
f Machine-Learned Model(sy
122 480 \
os
1 150
Training Computing System
152
H 184
HT ne
we
160
162

Patent Application Publication Apr. 25,2024 Sheet 1 of 5 US 2024/0135187 Al
fo) au ona 9 R x 3 eS @ Qn
o mo om ©
S 8 $88 2 2 e228 28
a a
zs
8 §
Ee iS] s
: ai] = & 2
> 5 3 eo 2
a men c c Sie
OG we c = wit
c ols S o oh) S a
sf Ofc oO oi a & ray s
3 | a a a 21a re & %
alr < 7 Ei £ es
E& Oo = Oo Oo;d Fon no
o | 8% & Ws we Gi Ss
oO rf = oo | @ a =
ra gy fs) [aq wy mei =
g |e & ele Qa s
ela = aia 2he
5 fa
wi be
ao” S
co) =
2
cs cl
@ <
Ste ce)
2 1a ” = 2 Sone
= arent c
= |s S o 5 ve)
oO 18 m4 ihe E oa oo
wD sis io] rad
2 8 a 5 @ 3 a
— — a
ge = ® ||s Li
a E =
5 Ss 1/2
oO ied —
ral =
%
2 {f/f /
nN a +2 2 6 N
o o wee ge N rian]
= - or = -

Patent Application Publication Apr. 25, 2024 Sheet 2 of 5 US 2024/0135187 Al
b02
Een
s-2 ae
c &
Sg
= oO
36 a
Se
z ewz a6
< & & > O
2 SEs
= aed
a
a
: 2
° 5
g
a
° co
bes p a
BES 4
& Oo
S238 v
. —
30 ie!)
9 geo \/ . s iL
8 BEE 2
FS ga 5 *
z 23 g
a oO
< a
ees
gs 2
| 9°
Fa
' a
Soda owe
b 5 £& >
a a SE 8
fed
@ |@
So
LY
a
Oo
Nn

Patent Application Publication Apr. 25, 2024 Sheet 3 of 5 US 2024/0135187 Al
-_&
om &
co
Se
29
3?
z <6
ond we
gS
& =
Q
o
< S
e
4 e g
° bd &
wy
See bee ad
5 a
2 8 Y
2 a pea
2 z 5 ap
< a nN OQ & ul
2 G =
cad a ee
8 2 5
= = ied
= 8
< 8
S
5
Fa
8
8 [a 3
> c o
Yo o
fan} 23
oo S 2
& =
5 con
a Qa
Fa <
for
O
cm)
iO
N

Patent Application Publication Apr. 25,2024 Sheet 4 of 5 US 2024/0135187 Al
BN 2 Al
Din CAH
Yad Zo DU
£8 Ses
“3s
oa
22g
saa
&S
_ _ N
ap Tt on XO ™N
~es ~ea 2g )
oye ogo © a9 See
383 SHG ses
Seg Oss a ne _)
es es é ye)
LL.
1 Ww
gee
oe eg
Ea Eo
oe ©
a"
Sel
oo w
£2
FE &
hit

Patent Application Publication Apr. 25,2024 Sheet 5 of 5 US 2024/0135187 Al
300
302 Obtain a first plurality of unlabeled training examples, the first plurality of unlabeled
training examples respectively comprising a first plurality of queries
304 Augment the first plurality of queries with one or more additional feature
annotations to generate a first plurality of augmented training examples

306 Process the first plurality of augmented training examples with a first query

processing model to respectively generate a first plurality of inferred labels for the
first plurality of augmented training examples
308 Train a second query processing model to predict the first plurality of inferred labels
for the first plurality of augmented training examples
Obtain a second plurality of unlabeled training examples, the second plurality of
310 unlabeled training examples respectively comprising a second plurality of queries,
each of the second plurality of unlabeled training examples comprising a smaller
number of features than the first plurality of augmented training examples

312 Process the second plurality of unlabeled training examples with the second query

processing model to respectively generate a second plurality of inferred labels for
the second plurality of unlabeled training examples
314 Train a third query processing model to predict the second plurality of inferred
labels for the second plurality of unlabeled training examples

US 2024/0135187 Al Apr. 25, 2024
1
METHOD FOR TRAINING LARGE operations. The operations can include obtaining a first
LANGUAGE MODELS TO PERFORM plurality of unlabeled training examples, the first plurality of
QUERY INTENT CLASSIFICATION unlabeled training examples respectively comprising, a first
plurality of queries. The operations can further include
RELATED APPLICATIONS augmenting the first plurality of queries with one or more
[0001] This application claims priority to and the benefit additional feature annotations to generate a first plurality of
of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 63/418,151, aug nented framing exan nples. The operations call further
which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. include processing the first plurality of augmented tranmng
examples with a first query processing model to respectively
FIELD generate a first plurality of inferred labels for the first
plurality of augmented training examples. ‘he operations
[0002] The present disclosure relates generally to machine can further include training a second query processing
learning. More particularly, the present disclosure relates to model to predict the first plurality of inforred labels for the
computing systems, methods, and platforms that train large first plurality of augmented training examples. The opera-
language models to perform query intent classification tasks tions can further include obtaining, a second plurality of
by using retrieval augmentation and multi-stage distillation. unlabeled training examples, the second plurality of unla-
beled waining examples respectively comprising a second.
BACKGROUND plurality of queries, each of the second plurality of unlabeled
[0003] Machine learning is a field of computer science that training examples comprising a smaller number of features
includes the building and taining (c.g. via application of than the first plurality of augmented training examples. ‘lhe
one or more learning algorithms) of analytical models that operations can further include processing the second plural-
are capable of making usctul predictions or inferences on the ity of unlabeled trainmg examples with the second query
basis of input data. Machine learning is based on the idea processing model to respectively generate a second plurality
that systems can learn from data, identify patterns, and make of inferred labels for the second plurality of unlabeled
decisions with minimal human intervention. training examples. The operations can further include train-
[0004] T.arge language models are machine learning mod- ing a third query processing model to predict the second
els that are trained on large amounts of data to perform plurality of inferred labels for the second plurality of unla-
language understanding tasks. For example, large language beled training examples.
models can be used to perform the task of query intent [0009] According to another example embodiment of the
classification, where the predicted query intent from a user’s present disclosure, a computecr-implemented method for
query input into a search engine can change the behavior of cfliciently training query processing models can be per-
the entire search engine. formed by one or more computing deviees and can include
[0005] However, scarch queries pose a unique challenge obtaining a first plurality of unlabeled training examples, the
for large language models because they are short in length first plurality of unlabeled training examples respectively
and lack nuance or context, which requires more memori- —_ comprising a first plurality of queries. The computer-imple-
zation and knowledge than other natural language process- mented method can further include augmenting the first
ing lasks. plurality of queries with one or more additional feature
[0006] Retrieval augmentation of queries can provide annolations to generale a first plurality of augmented train-
additional context to the large language model and enable an ing examples. ‘(he computer-implemented method can fur-
improved query understanding. Retrieval augmentation ther include processing the first plurality of augmented
improves accuracy but increases latency of large language training examples with a first query processing model to
models because of the longer inputs that result From it, respectively generate a first plurality of inferred labels for
which in turn decreases the distillation efficacy. The result is the first plurality of augmented training cxamples. The
a choice between a more effective language model with a —_ computer-implemented method can further include training
smaller distillation sct or a lower performing language a second query processing model to predict the first plurality
model with a larger distillation set; however, a large distil- of inferred labels for the first plurality of augmented training
lation set is required to train an effective language model and examples. The computer-implemented method can further
benefit from retrieval augmentation. Therefore, improved include obtaining a second plurality of unlabeled training,
techniques are desired to enhance the performance of large examples, the second plurality of unlabeled training
language models on language and query understanding examples respectively comprising a second plurality of
tasks. queries, each of the second plurality of unlabeled training
examples comprising a smaller number of features than the
SUMMARY first plurality of augmented training examples. The com-
[0007] Aspects and advantages of embodiments of the putcr-implemented method can further include processing
present disclosure will be set forth in part in the following the second plurality of unlabeled training cxamp les with the
description, or can be learned from the description, or can be second query processing model to respectively generate a
leaned through practice of the embodiments. second plurality of inferred labels for the second plurality of
[0008] According to one example embodiment of the unlabeled training examples. The computer-implemented
present disclosure, a computing system for efficiently train- method can further include training a third query processing
ing query processing models can include one or more model to predict the second plurality of inferred labels for
processors. The computing system can further include oncor __the second plurality of unlabeled. training examples.
more non-transitory computer-readable media that collec- [0010] According to another cxample embodiment of the
tively store instructions that, when executed by the one or present disclosure, one or more non-transitory computer-
more processors, cause the computing system to perform readable media can collectively store a third query process-

US 2024/0135187 Al Apr. 25, 2024
2
ing model that has been trained by performance of training DETAILED DESCRIPTION
operations. The training operations can include obtaining a
first plurality of unlabeled training examples, the first plu- Overview
rality of unlabeled training examples respectively font cnn [0019] Generally, the present disclosure is directed to
furthe ve des ity 0 aoe the fi it shnalite orate TONS vit h computing systems, methods, and platforms that train query
urmer wen “dite tek Nes vies i ° ee, ‘hy t processing models, such as large language models or other
vite ah ny of weeny 4 ure annola vmnpl ° ihe eaars sequence processing models such as vision-language mod-
pia ity oe a ane ee exanip th fi © vette els, to perform query intent classification tasks by using
aeons od url ser Ine wl eawith a fh e Lirst plurality retrieval augmentation and multi-stage distillation. Retrieval
° oohode alt te training i amp cs Marae ‘ st ine interned augmentation of the queries improves large language model
ib ast €. . Teer cling, i vera ad, Ural ity olin vole. performance by providing models with the additional con-
The for the first plurality rm wher tac enn oxamp nd text necessary fo enable an improved understanding of the
c traiming oP’ Set act edict ‘th ot a a litt f search query. In particular, one example compuling system
toe Piebole fry the fi te Pee re rst eed te ity 0 can use retrieval augmentation by concalenaling a search
inferred labels for the first plurality of augmented training query with the title and URL of the retrieved decument.
examples. The training operations can further include a : :
we : ws [9020] The computing system can train a query processing
obtaining a second plurality of unlabeled. training examples, ~ et
. model (e.g., a large language model, vision-language model,
the second plurality of unlabeled training, examples respec- ; . a ays :
: - . ~ . other sequence processing model, etc.) with retrieval aug-
tively comprising a second plurality of queries, each of the : js ee : : an
A oe mentation of the queries. ‘The retrieval augmentation results
second plurality of unlabeled training examples comprising : : ; .. varpast cess ae a
~ ~ : in longer inpuls, which decreases the distillation ellicacy,
a smaller number of features than the first plurality of " Iti distillati be used by tt
mented training cxamples. The training operations can thus a multi-stage distillation process call be us y the
augmen! & cxampics. S Oper: proposed system to distill the trained model and improve the
further inchide processing the second plurality of unlabeled _ . . wae . .
_ . performance of query intent prediction. Therefore, by using
training cxamples with the second query processing model . satay oat a
; ann the multi-stage distillation process, the benefits of retrieval
to respectively generate a second plurality of inferred labels A - on A
5 .. augmentation can be realized without sutfering the increased
for the second plurality of unlabeled training examples. The . . . “
. : a : compute time that is generally associated with retrieval
training, operations can further include training the third .
: : : augmentation.
query processing model to predict the second plurality of . .
inferred labels for the second plurality of unlabeled training [0021] In one example. the multi-stage process can
include two stages. During the first stage of distillation, the
examples. proposed system can distill the query processing model that
[0011] ‘These and other leatures, aspects, and advantages : if . : aan :
- : : : . was trained with retrieval augmentation into a non-retrieval
of various embodiments of the present disclosure will ‘ .
. . * augmented query processing model (e.g., a non-retrieval
become better understood with reference to the following . :
we . - augmented large language model) by using a small set of
description and appended claims. The accompanying draw- nar ae . .
. . . : . nae training data. In this stage, a small subset of unlabeled data
ings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this . ; ean vs
. ao : can be used lo train a second query processing model (e.z.,
specification, illustrate example embodiments of the present 7 ones : "
4 ae a second large language model). Training a large language
disclosure and, together with the description, serve to ie eal =
. - model with a small subset of unlabeled data performs better
explain the related principles. oe G a
than training a large language model without retrieval aug-
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS mentation directly on human data and results in more
efficient distillation of the model. Thus, a non-retricval
[0012] Detailed discussion of implementations directed to augmented query processing model can be trained to benefit
one of ordinary skill in the art is set forth in the specification, from the gains of retrieval augmentation, without the
which makes reference to the appended figures, in which: increased cost of retrieval augmentation, by using, this
[0013] FIG. 1A depicts a block diagram of an example approach. The resulting query processing model can then be
computing, system that performs training query processing, used in the second. stage of distillation.
models according to example embodiments of the present [0022] During the sccond stage of distillation, the pro-
disclosure. - . . posed system can distill the second query processing model
[0014] PIG. 1B depicts a block diagram of an example into a smaller query processing model (c.g., a smaller large
computing device thal perlorms training query processing language model) using a large set of training, data without
models according to example embodiments of the present retrieval augmentation. The full unlabeled data set can be
disclosure. used in this stage. The second query processing, model can
[0015] FIG. 1C depicts a block diagram of an example amnolate the entire unlabeled data set, rather (han a small
computing device that performs training query processing subset of the unlabeled data set, which can be used to train
models according to example embodiments of the present a third query processing model (e.g., a third large language
disclosure. model). ‘Lhe resulting query processing model can then be
[0016] FIG. 2 depicts a block diagram of an example of used in practical applications, such as for online use.
(raining query processing models according to example [0023] In another aspect, the computing system can use
implementations of the present disclosure. the proposed retrieval augmentation and multi-stage distil-
[0017] FIG. 3 depicts a flow chart diagram of an example lation process to perform any query understanding task,
method to perform training query processing models accord- including query intent classification, Query intent classifi-
ing, to example embodiments of the present disclosure. cation, for example, needs language models that are fast
[0018] Reference numerals that are repeated across plural (.c., low latency) and high cflicacy, thus the proposed
figures are intended to identify the same features in various system can improve the query intent task. Other query
implementations. understanding tasks can benefit from the proposed system

US 2024/0135187 Al Apr. 25, 2024
3

because it enables the use of retrieval augmentation to the machine-learned models 120 and 140 can be both trained
improve query understanding while reducing the computing and used locally at the user computing device 102. In some
resources for retrieval augmentation, resulting in production of such implementations, the user computing device 102 can
language models that are real-world capable and that can be implement the model trainer 160 to personalize the machine-
used in various applications. learned models 120 based on user-specific data.
[0024] Another aspect of the present disclosure is directed [0030] ‘The user computing device 102 can be any type of
to identifying queries wilh a specific intent, for example in compuling device, such as, for example, a personal com-
the context of e-commerce. In particular, human-labeled puting device (e.g., laptop or desktop), a mobile computing
data can be accompanied by a large unlabeled data set for the device (e.g., smartphone or tablet), a gaming console or
proposed system to use for knowledge distillation. controller, a wearable computing device, an embedded com-
[0025] In another aspect, the proposed system can use a puting device, or any other type of computing device.
data set that is human-labeled and contains queries labeled [0031] The user computing device 102 includes one or
with one or more intent classes from among a sct of multiple more processors 112 and a memory 114. The one or more
intent classes. processors 112 can be any suitable processing device (e.g.,
[0026] The systems and methods of the present disclosure a processor core, a microprocessor, an ASIC, an FPGA, a
provide a number of technical effects and benefits. As one controller, a microcontroller, etc.) and can be one processor
example, various computing systems and applications would or a plurality of processors thal are operatively connected.
benefit from an improvement in the performance of large ‘The memory 114 can include one or more non-transitory
language models on language and query understanding computer-readable storage media, such as RAM, ROM,
tasks. ‘Ihe proposed system provides value because the EEPROM, EPROM, flash memory devices, magnetic disks,
increase in the complexity of large language model infer- etc., and combinations thereof. The memory 114 can store
ence that normally occurs when using retrieval augmenta- data 116 and instructions 118 which are executed by the
tion is reduced, with no loss in performance and a decrease processor 112 to cause the user computing device 102 to
in computing time. Without the setbacks of retrieval aug- perform operations.
mentation, large language models trained with the proposed [0032] In some implementations, the user computing
system can retain the performance gains of retrieval aug- device 102 can store or include one or more machine-
mentation on query understanding tasks, making these large leamed models 120. Vor example, the machine-leamed
language models practical for online use or other applica- models 120 can be or can otherwise include various
tions. Thus, the proposed systems improve the functionality machine-learned models such as neural networks (e.g., deep
of a computer for various tasks. . neural networks) or other types of machine-Iearned models,
[0027] As another example technical effect and benefit, including non-linear models and/or lincar models. Neural
the computing resources used for query understanding tasks networks can include feed-forward neural networks, recur-
are reduced when using retrieval augmentation and multi- rent neural networks (¢.g., long short-term memory recur-
slage distillation. Retrieval augmentation of a data sel uses rent neural networks), convolutional neural networks or
many computing resources. Tor example, using retrieval other forms of neural networks. Some example machine-
augmentation to improve query understanding on an entire learned models can leverage an attention mechanism such as
data set with millions of examples uses many computing self-atlention. For example, some example machine-learned.
resources. However, using retrieval augmentation on a sub- models can include multi-headed sel {-atlention models (e.g.,
set of the data set (i.c., a smaller data set) uses less transformer models). Example machine-learned models 120
computing resources. Thus, training a large language model are discussed with reference to MIG. 2.
with a retrieval augmented subset of the data set saves [0033] In some implementations, the one or more
considerable computing FOSOUTCCS. Furthermore, a large machine-learned models 120 can be received from the server
language model trained with the retrieval augmented subset computing system 130 over network 180, stored in the user
of the data set can then be distilled into a smaller large computing device memory 114, and then used or otherwise
language model using. the entire training data without implemented by the one or more processors 112. In some
retrieval augmentation. Therefore, a resulling, large language implementations, the user computing, device 102 can imple-
model can be obtained with the benefit of retrieval augmien- ment multiple parallel instances of a single machine-learned
tation and without the increased computing resources of model 120 (e.g., to perform parallel retrieval augmentation
using retrieval augmentation on the enlire data set. . and multi-stage distillation across multiple instances).
[0028] With reference now fo the Tigures, example imple- [0034] Additionally, or alternatively, one or more
mentations of the present disclosure will be discussed in machine-learned models 140 can be inchided in or otherwise
grealer detail. stored and implemented by the server computing system 130

. that communicates with the user computing device 102

Example Devices and Systems . . ye . .
according to a client-server relationship. For example, the

[0029] TIG. 1A depicts a block diagram of an example machine-learned models 140 can be implemented by the
computing, system 100 that performs training query process- server computing, system 130 as a portion of a web service.
ing models according to example embodiments of the pres- Thus, one or more machine-learned models 120 can be
ent disclosure. The computing system 100 includes a user stored and implemented. al the user compuling device 102
computing device 102, a server computing system 130, and and/or one er more machine-learned. models 140 can be
a training compuling system 150 that are communicatively stored and implemented al the server computing system 130.
coupled over a network 180. Other computing systems can [0035] The user computing device 102 can also include
be used as well. For example, in some implementations, the one or more user input components 122 that receives user
user computing device 102 can include the model trainer input. For example, the user input component 122 can be a
160 and the training dataset 162. In such implementations, touch-sensitive component (e.g., a touch-sensitive display

US 2024/0135187 Al Apr. 25, 2024
4
screen or a touch pad) that is sensitive to the touch of a user [0041] The training computing system 150 can include a
input object (¢.g., a finger or a stylus). The touch-sensitive model traincr 160 that trains the machine-learned models
component can serve to implement a virtual keyboard. Other 120 and/or 140 stored at the user computing device 102
example user input components include a microphone, a and/or the server computing, system 130 using various
traditional keyboard, or other means by which a user can training or learning techniques, such as, for example, back-
provide user input. wards propagation of errors. For example, a loss function
[0036] The server computing system 130 includes one or can be backpropagated through the model(s) to update one
more processors 132 and a memory 134. The one or more —«© More parameters of the model(s) (¢.g., based on a gradient
processors 132 can be any suitable processing device (e.g., of the loss function). Various loss functions can be used such
a processor core, a microprocessor, an ASIC, an FPGA, a as mean squared error, likelihood loss, cross entropy loss,
controller, a microcontroller, ete.) and can be one processor hinge loss, and/or various other loss functions. Gradient
or a plurality of processors that are operatively connected. descent techniques can be used to iteratively update the
The memory 134 can include one or more non-transitory parameters over a number of training iterations.
computer-readable storage media, such as RAM, ROM, [9042] In some implementations, performing backwards
EEPROM, EPROM, flash memory devices, magnetic disks, propagation of errors can include performing truncated
etc., and combinations thereof. ‘the memory 134 can store backpropagation through time. ‘he model trainer 160 can
data 136 and instructions 138 which are execuled by the perlorm a number of generalization techniques (e.g., weight
processor 132 to cause the server computing system 130 to decays, dropouts, etc.) to improve the generalization capa-
perform operations. bility of the models being trained.
[0037] In some implementations, the server computing [0043] In particular, the model trainer 160 can train the
system 130 includes or is otherwise implemented by one or machine-learned models 120 and/or 140 based on a set of
more server computing devices. In instances in which the training data 162. The training data 162 can include, for
server computing system 130 includes plural server com- example, quer ies of search terms and other query input such
puting devices, such server computing devices can operate as queries input into a search engine.
according to sequential computing architectures, parallel [0044] In some implementations, if the user has provided
computing architectures, or some combination thereof. consent, the training examples can be provided by the user
[0038] As described above, the server computing system computing device 102. ‘Thus, in such implementations, the
130 can store or otherwise include one or more machine- machine-lcarned model 120 provided to the user computing
learned models 140. For example, the machine-learned device 102 can be trained by the training computing system
models 140 can be or can otherwise include various 150, on user-specific data received from the user computing
machine-leamed models. Example machine-learned models device 102. Tn some instances, this process can be referred
include neural networks or other multilayer nonlinear © 48 personalizing the model.
models, Example neural networks include feed forward [0045] The model trainer 160 includes computer logic
neural networks, decp neural networks, recurrent neural utilized to provide desired functionality. The medel trainer
networks, and convolutional neural networks. Some 160 can be implemented in hardware, firmware, and/or
example machine-learned models can leverage an attention sofiware controlling a general purpose processor. For
mechanism such as self-attention. For example, some example, im some implementations, the model trainer 160
example machine-learned models can include multi-headed includes program files stored on a storage device, loaded
self-attention models (e.g., transformer models). Example into a memory and executed by one or more processors. In
machine-learned models 140 are discussed with reference to other implementations, the model trainer 160 includes one
FIG. 2. or more sets of computer-cxecutable instructions that are
[0039] The user computing, device 102 and/or the server stored in a tangible computer-rcadable storage medium such
compuling system 130 can train the machine-learned models as RAM, hard disk, or optical or magnetic media.
120 and/or 140 via interaction with the training computing [0046] The network 180 can be any type of communica-
system 150 that is communicatively coupled over the net- tions network, such as a local area network (e.g., intranet),
work 180. The traming computing system 150 can be wide area network (c.g., Internet), or some combination
separate from the server computing system 130 or can be a thereof and can include any number of wired or wireless
portion of the server computing system 130. links. In general, communication over the network 180 can
[0040] The training computing system 150 includes one or be carried via any type of wired andor wi reless connection,
more processors 152 and a memory 154. The one or more using a wie vanety of communication protocols (eg.
R i . TCP/IP, IITTP, SMTP, 'TP), encodings or formats (e.g.,
processors 152 can be any suitable processing device (e.g., ns ; : hi VPN
a processor core, a microprocessor, an ASIC, an FPGA, a HIML, XML), and/or protection schemes (e.g, VPN,
: secure HTP, SSL).
controller, a microcontroller, etc.) and can be one processor . . .
or a plurality of processors that are operatively connected. [0047] , Mc. 1B depicts a block diagram of an example
The memory 154 can include one or more non-transitory computing device 200 that performs training query process-
computer-readable storage media, such as RAM, ROM, ing models according to example embodiments of the pres-
CEPROM, EPROM, flash memory devices, magnetic disks, cnt disclosure. The conrputing device 200 can be a user
etc., and combinations thereof. ‘he memory 154 can store computing device or a server computing device.
data 156 and instructions 158 which are executed by the [0048] ‘The computing device 200 includes a number of
processor 152 to cause the training computing system 150 to applications (c.g., applications 1 through N). Each applica-
perform operations. In some implementations, the training tion contains its own machine learning library and machine-
computing system 150 includes or is otherwise implemented learned model(s). For example, cach application can include
by one or more server computing devices. a machine-learned model. Example applications include a

US 2024/0135187 Al Apr. 25, 2024
5
text messaging application, an email application, a dictation (e.g., an alteration of the image data, etc.). As another
application, a virtual keyboard application, a browser appli- example, the machine-learned model(s) can process the
cation, etc. image data to generate an encoded image data output (e.g.,
[0049] As illustrated in FIG. 1B, each application can an encoded and/or compressed representation of the image
communicate with a number of other components of the data, etc.). As another example, the machine-learned model
computing device, such as, for example, one or more sen- (s) can process the image data to generate an upscaled image
sors, a context manager, a device state component, and/or data output. As another example, the machine-learned model
additional components. In some implementations, each (s) can process the image data to generate a prediction
application can communicate with each device component output.
using an APT (e.g., a public APT). In some implementations, [0056] In some implementations, the input to the machine-
the APT used by each application is specific to that applica- learned model(s) of the present disclosure can be text or
tion. natural language data. The machine-learned model(s) can
[0050] FIG. 1C depicts a block diagram of an example process the text or natural language data to generate an
computing, device 250 that performs training query process- output. As an example, the machine-learned model(s) can
ing, models according to example embodiments of the pres- process the natural language data to generate a language
ent disclosure. The computing device 250 can be a user encoding output. As another example, the machine-learned
computing device or 4 server computing device. model(s) can process the text or natural language data to
[0051] ‘Lhe computing device 250 includes a number of generate a latent text embedding output. As another
applications (e.g., applications 1 through N). Each applica- example, the machine-learned model(s) can process the text
tion is in communication with a central intelligence layer. or natural language data to gencrate a translation output. As
Example applications include a text messaging application, another example, the machine-learned model(s) can process
an email application, a dictation application, a virtual key- the text or natural language data to generate a classification
board application, a browser application, etc. In some imple- output. As another example, the machine-learned model(s)
mentations, each application can communicate with the can process the text or natural language data to generate a
central intelligence layer (and model(s) stored therein) using, textual segmentation output. As another example, the
an API (e.g., a common APT across all applications). machine-learned model(s) can process the text or natural
[0052] ‘The central intelligence layer includes a number of language data to generale a semantic intent outpul. As
machine-learned models. For example, as illustrated in FIG. another example, the machine-learned model(s) can process
1C, a respective machine-learned model can be provided for the lext or natural language data lo generate an upscaled text
cach application and managed by the central intelligence or natural language output (c.g., text or natural language data
layer. In other implementations, two or more applications that is higher quality than the input text or natural language,
can share a single qnachine-learned model. For example, in ete.). As another example. the machine-learned models) can
some implementations, the central intelligence layer can process the text or natural language data to generate a
provide a single model for all of the applications. In some prediction output.
implementations, the central intelligence layer is included [0057] In some implementations, the input to the machine-
within or otherwise implemented by an operating system of learned model(s) of the present disclosure can be speech
the compuling device 250. data. he machine-learned model(s) can process the speech
[0053] The central intelligence layer can communicate data to generale an outpul. As an example, the machine-
with a central device data layer. ‘he central device data layer learned model(s) can process the speech data to generate a
can be a centralized repository of data for the computing speech recognition output. As another cxample, the
device 250. As illustrated in FIG. 1C, the central device data machine-learned model(s) can process the speech data to
layer can communicate with a number of other components generate a speech translation output. As another example,
of the computing device, such as, for example, one or more the machine-learned model(s) can process the speech data to
sensors, a context manager, a device state component, and/or generate a latent embedding output. As another example, the
additional components. In some implementations, the cen- machine-learned model(s) can process the speech data to
tral device data layer can communicate with each device generate an encoded speech output (e.g., an encoded and/or
component using an API (¢.g., a private API). compressed representation of the speech dala, etc.). As
[0054] The machine-learned models described in this another example, the machine-learned model(s) can process
specification may be used in a variety of tasks, applications, the speech data to generate an upscaled speech output (e.g.,
and/or use cases. speech data that is higher quality than the inpul speech data,
[0055] In some implementations, the input to the machine- etc.), As another example, the machine-learned model(s) can
learned model(s) of the present disclosure can be image data. process the specch data to generate a textual representation
The machine-learned model(s) can process the image datato —«©utput (¢.g., a textual representation of the input speech data,
generate an output. As an example, the machine-learned etc.). As another example, the machine-learned model(s) can
model(s) can process the image dala to generate an image process the speech data to generate a prediction output.
recognition output (e.g., a recognition of the image data, a [0058] In some implementations, the input to the machine-
latent embedding of the image data, an encoded represen- learned model(s) of the present disclosure can be latent
tation of the image data, a bash of the image data, etc.). As encoding dala (e.g., a latent space representation of an inpul,
another example, the machine-learned model(s) can process etc.). ‘he machine-learned model(s) can process the latent
the image data to generale an image segmentation outpul. As encoding dala to generale an outpul. As an example, the
another example, the machine-learned model(s) can process machine-learned model(s) can process the latent encoding
the image data to generate an image classification output. As data to generate a recognition output. As another example,
another example, the machine-learned model(s) can process the machine-learned model(s) can process the latent encod-
the image data to generate an image data modification output ing data to generate a reconstruction output. As another

US 2024/0135187 Al Apr. 25, 2024
6
example, the machine-learned model(s) can process the tiple images, and the image processing output defines, for
latent encoding data to generate a search output. As another each pixel of one of the input images, a motion of the scene
example, the machine-learned model(s) can process the depicted at the pixel between the images in the network
latent encoding data to generate a reclustering output. As input.
another example, the machine-learned model(s) can process [0062] In some cases, the inpul includes audio dala rep-
the latent encoding data to generate a prediction output. resenting a spoken utterance and the task is a speech
[0059] In some implementations, the iput to the machine- recognition task. The output may comprise a text output
learned model(s) of the present disclosure can be statistical which is mapped to the spoken utterance. In some cases, the
data. Statistical data can be, represent, or otherwise include task comprises encrypting or decrypting input data. In some
data computed and/or calculated from some other data eases, the task comprises a microprocessor performance
source. The machine-learned model(s) can process the sta- task, such as branch prediction or memory address transla-
tistical data to generate an output. As an example, the tion.
machine-learned model(s) can process the statistical data to
generate a recognition output. As another example, the Lxample Multi-Stage Distillation
machine-leamed model(s) can process the statistical dala to
generale a prediction output. As another example, the [0063] FIG. 2 depicts a block diagram of an example of
machine-leamed model(s) can process the statistical dala to multi-stage distillation for training query processing models
generate a classification output. As another example, the according to example embodiments of the present disclo-
machine-learned model(s) can process the statistical data to sure. In some implementations, the example mulli-stage
generate a segmentation output. As another example, the distillation illustrated in FIG. 2 can receive a first plurality
machine-learned model(s) can process the statistical data to of training examples 10. ‘The training examples 10 may be
generate a visualization output. As another example, the 2 unlabeled sct of training examples. In at least one
machine-learned model(s) can process the statistical data to implementation, the unlabeled training cxamples in training
generate a diagnostic output. examples 10 may comprise a plurality of search queries. In
[0060] Insome implementations, the input to the machine- one or more imp Iementations, training cxamples 10 may be
learned model(s) of the present disclosure can be sensor used to train query Processing, models (e-8. large language
data. ‘he machine-learned. model(s) can process the sensor models) on query intent classification tasks.
data to generate an output. As an example, the machinc- [0064] The queries in training examples 10 may be aug-
learned model(s) can process the sensor data to generate a mented with one or more additional feature annotations to
recognition output. As another example, the machine- generate augmented training examples 12. For example,
learned model(s) can process the sensor data to generate a augmented training examples 12 may include the queries in
prediction output. As another example, the machine-learned training examples 10 augmented with the titles of documents
model(s) can process the sensor data to generate a classifi- retrieved for the queries or the URLs of documents retrieved
cation output. As another example, the machine-learned for the queries. For instance, the titles of the documents or
model(s) can process the sensor data lo generale a segmen- the URLs of the documents can be concatenated with a
tation output. As another example, the machine-learned query, and the query can be used as an input to a query
model(s) can process the sensor dala to generate a visual- processing model. For example, for a query of “ua 1234,” it
ization output. As another example, the machine-learned may not be immediately apparent what they query is asking,
model(s) can process the sensor data to generate a diagnostic however, the retrieved documents for the query can provide
output. As another example, the machine-learned model(s) additional context that allaws a model to determine that the
can process the sensor data to generate a detection output. query is seeking information about a United Airlines flight.
[0061] In some cases, the input includes visual data and [0065] A first query processing model 14 (c.g.. a first large
the task is a computer vision task. In some cases, the input language model) may be used to annotate a data set com-
includes pixel data for one or more images and the task is an prising the augmented training examples 12. For instance,
image processing task. For example, the image processing the first query processing model 14 may process the aug-
task can be image classification, where the output is a set of mented training examples 12 to generate inferred labels 16
scores, each score corresponding to a dillerent object class for the augmented training examples 12. Thus, the first query
and representing the likelihood that the one or more images processing model 14 may infer labels for the unlabeled
depict an object belonging to the object class. ‘The image training examples 10 that have been augmented in aug-
processing task may be object detection, where the image mented training examples 12 to generale inferred. labels 16
processing output identifics one or more regions in the one for another model to train on.
or more images and, for each region, a likelihood that region [0066] The first query processing model 14 may be dis-
depicts an object of interest. As another cxample, the image tilled into a second query processing model 18 (c.g., a
processing task can he image segmentation, where the image second large language model). For instance, the second
processing output defines, for each pixel in the one or more query processing model 18 may be trained to predict the
images, a respective likelihood for each category in a inferred labels 16 for the augmented training examples 12.
predetermined set of categories. lor example, the set of ‘The second. query processing model 18 may be trained on
categories can be foreground and background. As another the first set of training examples 10 and the inferred labels
example, the set of categories can be object classes. As 16 so the second query processing model 18 can learn to
another example, the image processing task can be depth predict the inferred labels 16. ‘Thus, the second query
estimation, where the image processing output defines, for processing model 18 can be trained to benefit from the gains
each pixel in the one or more images, a respective depth of retrieval augmentation. In order to train the second query
valuc. As another example, the image processing task can be processing model 18, the training examples 10 may not be
motion estimation, where the network input includes mul- augmented.

US 2024/0135187 Al Apr. 25, 2024
7
[0067] A second set of training examples 20 may be some examples, the computing system obtains a first plu-
obtained for use in another stage of distillation. The second rality of labeled training examples, the first plurality of
set of training examples 20 may be an unlabeled set of labeled training examples respectively comprising a first
training, examples. In at least one implementation, the unla- plurality of queries. The first plurality of labeled training
beled training examples in training, examples 20 may com- examples are labeled with a query intent class in some
prise a plurality of search queries. In at least one implemen- examples.
tation, the second set of training examples 20 may be larger [0073] At 304, the computing system augments the first
than the first set of training examples 10. ‘lhe training plurality of queries with one or more additional feature
examples 20 may not be augmented with one or more annotations to generate a first plurality of augmented train-
additional feature annotations. Thus, training cxamples 20 ing examples. In some implementations, the one or more
may contain a smaller number of feature annotations than additional feature annotations comprises URLs of docu-
the augmented training examples 12. ments retrieved for the first plurality of queries. In another
[0068] The second query processing model 18 may be example, the one or more additional feature annotations
used to annotate a data set comprising the second set of comprises titles of documents retrieved for the first plurality
training, examples 20. For instance, the second query pro- of queries.
cessing, model 18 may process the training examples 20 to [0074] At 306, the computing, system processes the first
generale a second set of inferred labels 22 for the training plurality of augmented. training examples with a first query
examples 20. Thus, the second query processing, model 18 processing model to respectively generate a first plurality of
may infer labels lor the unlabeled training examples 20 that interred labels for the first plurality of augmented. training
have not been augmented to generate inferred labels 22 for examples.
another model to train on. In at least one implementation, the [0075] At 308, the computing system trains a second
second set of training examples 20 may be larger than the query processing model to predict the first plurality of
first sect of training cxamples 10. Thus, the second query inferred labels for the first plurality of augmented training
processing model 18 may annotate an entire unlabeled data examples. In some implementations, training the second
set. query processing model to predict the first plurality of
[0069] The second query processing model 18 may be inferred labels for the first plurality of augmented training
distilled into a third query processing, model 24 (e.g... a third examples comprises training the second query processing
large language model). For instance, the third query pro- model to predict the first plurality of inferred labels based on
cessing model 24 may be trained to predict the second set of the first plurality of queries exclusive of the one or more
inferred labels 22 for the second set of training examples 20. additional feature annotations. In some examples, the second
‘The third query processing model 24 may be trained on the query processing model has the same number of parameters
second set of training examples 20 and the second set of as the first query processing model.
inferred labels 22 so the third query processing model 24 can [0076] At 310, the computing system obtains a second
learn to predict the interred labels 22. plurality of unlabeled training examples, the second plural-
[0070] In at least one implementation, the second set of ity of unlabeled training examples respectively comprising a
(raining examples 20 may be larger than the first set of second plurality of queries, each of the second plurality of
(raining examples 10. Thus, the second query processing unlabeled training examples comprising a smaller number of
model 18 can be distilled into the third query processing features than the first plurality of augmented training
model 24 using a large data sct. The second query processing examples. In some implementations, the second plurality of
model 18, distilled from the retricval-augmented first query unlabeled training, examples is a larger number of training
processing model 14, generated the second set of inferred examples than the first plurality of unlabeled training
labels 22 for training the third query processing model 24. examples.
Thus, the third query processing, model 24 can be trained to [0077] At312, the computing system processes the second
benefit from the gains of retrieval augmentation while being plurality of unlabeled training examples with the second
smaller than the first query processing model 14 and the query processing, model to respectively generate a second
second query processing model 18 and using a larger set of plurality of inferred. labels lor the second plurality of unla-
training examples. beled training examples.
[0078] At 314, the computing system trains a third query

Example Methods processing model to predict the second plurality of inferred
[0071] TG. 3 depicts a Mow chart diagram of an example labels for the second plurality of unlabeled training
method to perform training query processing models accord- examples. Tn some implementations, the third query pro-
. : . : ' Sere cessing model has a smaller number of parameters than the
ing to example embodiments of the present disclosure. :
Although TIG. 3 depicts steps performed in a particular second query processing model.
order for purposes ot illustration and discussion, the meth- Additional Disclosure
ods of the present disclosure are not limited to the parlicu-
larly illustrated order or arrangement. The various steps of [0079] The technology discussed herein makes reference
the method 300 can be omitted, rearranged, combined, to servers, databases, soltware applications, and other com-
and/or adapted in various ways without deviating from the puter-based systems, as well as actions laken and informa-
scope of the present disclosure. tion sent to and from such systems. ‘The inherent flexibility
[0072] At 302, a computing system obtains a first plurality of computer-based systems allows for a greal variety of
of unlabeled training cxamples, the first plurality of unla- possible configurations, combinations, and divisions of tasks
beled training examples respectively comprising a first plu- and functionality between and among components. For
rality of queries. In some implementations, the first plurality instance, processes discussed herein can be implemented
of queries comprises queries of technical terminologies. In using a single device or component or multiple devices or

US 2024/0135187 Al Apr. 25, 2024
8
components working in combination. Databases and appli- predict the first plurality of inferred labels for the first
cations can be implemented on a single system or distributed plurality of augmented training examples comprises training
across multiple systems. Distributed components can oper- the second query processing model to predict the first
ate sequentially or in parallel. plurality of inferred labels based on the first plurality of
[0080] While the present subject matter has been queries exclusive of the one or more additional feature
described in detail with respect to various specific example annotations.
embodiments thereof, each example is provided by way of 6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1,
explanation, not limitation of the disclosure. ‘hose skilled in wherein the second query processing model comprises a
the art, upon allaining an understanding of the loregoing, same number of parameters as the first query processing
can readily prochice alterations to. variations of, and equiva- model.
lents to such embodiments. Accordingly, the subject disclo- 7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1,
sure docs not preelude inclusion of such modifications, wherein the second plurality of unlabeled training examples
variations and/ or additions to the prescit subject matter as comprises a larger number of training examples than the first
would be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. plurality of unlabeled training examples.
For instance, features illustrated or described as part of one : :
. . : : 8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1,
embodiment can be used with another embodiment to yield | : : i, : .
. ; a - wherein the third query processing model comprises a
a still further embodiment. Thus, it is intended that the . ae
: : ner smaller number of parameters than the second query pro-
present disclosure cover such alterations, variations, and ct del
equivalents cessing, Mowe".
. : : 9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further
What is claimed is: - ra . a
_ . comprising obtaining a first plurality of labeled training
1. A computer-implemented method for training query : so
. . examples, the first plurality of labeled training examples
processing models, the method performed by one or more . a i : - 5
. . a. respectively comprising a first plurality of queries.
computing devices and comprising: 10. Th imp 4 hod of claim 9
obtaining a first plurality of unlabeled training examples, A . h, fect van 4 method of ¢ von ;
the first plurality of unlabeled training examples wherein the first plurality of labeled training examples are
respectively comprising a first plurality of queries; labeled with a query intent class. . .
augmenting the first plurality of queries with one or more dt. A computing system for tramung query processing
additional feature annotations to generate a first plu- models, the computing system comprising:
rality of augmented training examples; one or more processors; and
processing the first plurality of augmented training one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that
examples with a first query processing model to respec- store instructions that, when executed by the one or
tively generate a first plurality of inferred labels for the more processors, cause the computing system to per-
first plurality of augmented training examples: form operations, the operations comprising:
training a second query processing model to predict the obtaining a first plurality of unlabeled training
first plurality of interred labels for the first plurality of examples, the first plurality of unlabeled training
augmented training examples; examples respectively comprising a first plurality of
oblaining a second plurality of unlabeled training queries;
examples, the second plurality of unlabeled training augmenting the first plurality of querics with one or
examples respectively comprising a second plurality of more additional feature annotations to generate a first
queries, each of the second plurality of unlabeled plurality of augmented training examples;
training examples comprising a smaller number of : : so
. . . . woe processing the first plurality of augmented training
features than the first plurality of augmented training . . .
. . ° examples with a first query processing model to
examples: an | ‘ : :
‘ : - aa respectively generale a first plurality of inferred
processing the second plurality of unlabeled training . a
‘ : labels for the first plurality of augmented training
examples with the second query processing model to examples: .
respectively generate a second plurality of inferred _. pies; . .
labels for the second plurality of unlabeled training training a second query processing model to predict the
examples; and . first plurality of inferred labels for the first plurality
training a third query processing model to predict the of augmented training examples; ..
second plurality of inferred labels for the second plu- obtaining a second plurality of unlabeled training
rality of unlabeled training examples. examples, the second plurality of unlabeled training
2. The computer-implemented method ef claim 1, examples respectively comprising a second plurality
wherein the first plurality of queries comprises queries of of queries, each of the second plurality of unlabeled
technical terminologies. training examples comprising a smaller number of
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 features than the first plurality of angmented training
wherein the one or more additional feature annotations examples,
comprises URLs of documents retrieved for the first plural- processing the second plurality of unlabeled training
ity of queries. examples with the second query processing, model to
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, respectively generale a second plurality of inferred
wherein the one or more additional feature annotations labels for the second plurality of unlabeled training
comprises titles of documents retrieved for the first plurality examples; and
of queries. training a third query processing model to predict the
§. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, second plurality of inferred labels for the second
wherein training the second query processing model to plurality of unlabeled training examples.

US 2024/0135187 Al Apr. 25, 2024
9

12. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the one or 20. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media
more additional feature annotations comprises URLs of that collectively store a third query processing model,
documents retrieved for the first plurality of queries. wherein the third query processing model has been trained

13. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the one or by perlormance of training operitions, the training opera-

as : . ae : tions comprising:
more additional feature annotations comprises titles of docu- 2. . ~ . ;
: . . obtaining a first plurality of unlabeled taining examples,
ments retrieved for the first plurality of queries. nd ran .
: , . . the first plurality of unlabeled training examples

14. The computing system of claim 11, wherein training respectively comprising a first plurality of queries;
the second query processing model to predict the first augmenting the first plurality of queries with one or more
plurality of inferred labels for the first plurality of aug- additional feature annotations to generate a first plu-
mented. training examples comprises training the second rality of augmented training examples:
query processing model to predict the first plurality of processing the first plurality of augmented training
inferred labels based on the first plurality of queries exclu- examples with a first query processing model to respec-
sive of the one or more additional feature annotations. tively generate a first plurality of interred labels tor the

15. The computing, system of claim 11, wherein the first plurality of augmented {ramming examples, .

_— Ce . Se training a second query processing model to predict the
second query processing model comprises a same number of first plurality of inferred labels lor the first plurality of
arameters as the furst query processing model irst plurality of inferred labels lor the first plurality o

parame) “ query Pp 8 . augmented training examples:

16. The computing, system of claim 11, wherein the obtaining a second plurality of unlabeled training
second plurality of unlabeled training examples comprises a examples, the second plurality of unlabeled training
larger number of training examples than the first plurality of examples respectively comprising a second plurality of
unlabeled training examples. queries, each of the second plurality of unlabeled

17. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the third training cxamples comprising a smaller number of
query processing model comprises a smaller number of Features than the first plurality of augmented training
parameters than the second query processing model. examples; : so

” ; . . . processing the second plurality of unlabeled training

18. The compuling system of claim ul, wherein the examples with the second query processing model to
operations further comprise obtaining a first plurality of respectively generate a second plurality of inferred
labeled training examples, the first plurality of labeled labels for the second plurality of unlabeled training
training examples respectively comprising a first plurality of examples; and.
queries. training the third query processing model to predict the

19. The computing system of claim 18, wherein the first second plurality of inferred labels for the second. plu-
plurality of labeled training cxamples are labeled with a tality of unlabeled training examples.
query intent class. ‘ok kk OF