US 20240012999A1
as) United States
a2) Patent Application Publication 0) Pub. No.: US 2024/0012999 Al
Sellam et al. (43) Pub. Date: Jan, 11, 2024
(54) LEARNED EVALUATION MODEL FOR Publication Classification
GRADING QUALITY OF NATURAT. (51) Int. CL
LANGUAGE GENERATION OUTPUTS ~ GOOF USB (2006.01)
on OORT LTE ae GO6F 40/284 (2006.01)
(71) Applicant: (Us) LLC, Mountain View, CA GO6F 40/51 (2006.01)
. ($2) U.S. CL
(72) Inventors: Thibault Sellam, New York City, NY CPC wees GO6F 40/58 (2020.01); GOOF 40/284
(US); Dipanjan Das, Jersey City, NJ (2020.01); GO6F 40/51 (2020.01)
(US); Ankur Parikh, New York City,
NY (US) (57) ABSTRACT
(21) Appl. No.: 18/473.386 Systems and methods for automatic evaluation of the quality
4. - of NLG outputs. In some aspects of the technology, a learned
(22) Filed: Sep. 25, 2023 evaluation model may be pretrained first using NLG model
Related U.S. Application Data pretraiming lasks, and. then with further pretraiming tasks
using automatically generated synthetic sentence pairs. In
(63) Continuation of application No. 18/079,148, filed on some cases, following pretraining, the evaluation model may
Dee. 12, 2022, which is a continuation of application be further fine-tuned using a sct of human-graded sentence
No. 17/003,572, filed on Aug. 26, 2020, now Pat. No. pairs. so that it learns to approximate the grades allocated by
11,551,002. the human evaluators.
202 Pretraining
204° NL Pretraining Tasks
206 --4-| Masked Language Modeling Tasks
208 -}-LJ Next-Sentence Prediction Tasks
210-4. Pretraining Using Synthetic Sentence Pairs
212-11 Generate synthetic sentence pairs from source documents using:
214
218- }-+L| Backtranslation
220~|-|-T Encode each sentence pair with training signals basedon.
222- ++ |4 Synthetic Sentence Pair Generation Flag
224-1 +--/ Automatic Metrics
226 - Learned Backtranslation Prediction Model
228 -}4-- | Learned Textual Entailment Model
2304-11 Train evaluation model to predict/approximate:
232-+-4-L-4 The synthetic sentence pair generation flag using classification loss
234- Each automatic metric’s output using regression loss
236 - The backtranstation prediction model's output using regression loss
238-~} 4-1 The textual entailment model's output using classification loss
240-~ Fine-Tuning
942.-|.| Using a set of human-graded sentence pairs, train evaluation model to
approximate the grades allocated by the human evaluators
200

Patent Application Publication Jan. 11,2024 Sheet 1 of 7 US 2024/0012999 Al
E
xX
wi
>
Ww
iY) “
§\z 8
a|o|| > {3
elé||s |S] ls
j*/8/15 [2/18
N a||=
o ; i i A
+t © OM 2
Go OG GO =
r=)
S|
=
_—
o
LL

Patent Application Publication Jan. 11,2024 Sheet 2 of 7 US 2024/0012999 Al
202 ~J Pretraining
204--TNiG Pretraining Tasks
206 -}-.) Masked Language Modeling Tasks
208 ~-+~1-4 Next-Sentence Prediction Tasks
210} Pretraining Using Synthetic Sentence Pairs
212-4-1-1 Generate synthetic sentence pairs from source documents using:
214--1-} | Random substitutions
216}
218~|-+-+4 Backtranslation
220--] Encode each sentence pair with training signals based on:
222 +1 14 Synthetic Sentence Pair Generation Flag
224 --4-1-| Automatic Metrics
226 -++~| Learned Backtransiation Prediction Model
228 -+-+-14 Learned Textual Entailment Model
230 -|-1-] Train evaluation model to predict/fapproximate:
232 -- The synthetic sentence pair generation flag using classification loss
234 --|-14+.| Each automatic metric’s output using regression loss
236 -4-+-L) The backtranslation prediction model's output using regression loss
238--1+~| | The textual entailment models output using classification loss
240°. Fine-Tuning
242 --|. Using a set of human-graded sentence pairs, train evaluation model to
approximate the grades allocated by the human evaluators
200
FIG. 2 a

Patent Application Publication Jan. 11,2024 Sheet 3 of 7 US 2024/0012999 Al

302...

L

Select a passage of text from a source document
304 7
Replace one or more words in the passage of text with a mask token (e.g., “[MASK]’)
306 ,
Train evaluation model to predict the original word corresponding to
each mask token based on one or more additional documents

300

FIG. 3

Patent Application Publication Jan. 11,2024 Sheet 4 of 7 US 2024/0012999 Al
402..
v
Select a first passage of text (“passage A’) from a source document
404 7
Select a second passage of text (“passage B”) from the source document
406 ,
Train evaluation model to predict whether passage B directly
follows passage A based on the words of passage A and passage B
400
FIG. 4

Patent Application Publication Jan. 11,2024 Sheet 5 of 7 US 2024/0012999 Al

502...

L

Select a passage of text (passage A) from a source document
504 -
Randomly select one or more words in passage A to be replaced
506 ,
Replace each selected word in passage A with a replacement word
to create a second passage of text (passage B)

500

FIG. 5

Patent Application Publication Jan. 11,2024 Sheet 6 of 7 US 2024/0012999 Al
602..
L
Select a passage of text (passage A) from a source document
604 -
Randomly select one or more words in passage A
606 ,
Delete each selected word from passage A to
create a second passage of text (passage B)
§00
FIG. 6

Patent Application Publication Jan. 11,2024 Sheet 7 of 7 US 2024/0012999 Al
702..
L
Select a passage of text (passage A) from a source document,
passage A being in a first language
704 -
Translate passage A from the first language into a
second language to create a second passage (passage A’)
706 ,
Translate passage A’ from ithe second language back into
the first language to create a third passage (passage B)
£00
FIG. 7

US 2024/0012999 Al Jan. 11, 2024
1
LEARNED EVALUATION MODEL FOR training signals of the plurality of training signals based on
GRADING QUALITY OF NATURAL a prediction [rom a backtranslation prediction model regard-
LANGUAGE GENERATION OUTPUTS ing a likelihood that one of the original passage of text or the
modified passage of text of the given synthetic sentence pair
CROSS-REFERENCE To RELATED could. have been generated by backtranslaling the other one
APPLICATIONS of the original passage of text or the modified passage of text
[0001] This application is a continuation of U.S. applica- of the given synthetic sentence pair; (1ii) pretraining. by the
tion Scr. No. 18/079,148, filed Dec. 12, 2022, which is a one or more processors, ihe neural network to predict, for
continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 17/003,572, filed each given synthetic sentence pair of the plurality of syn-
Aug. 26, 2020 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 11,551,002 on thetic sentence pairs, the plurality of training signals lor the
Jan. 10, 2023, the entire disclosures of which are incorpo- given synthetic sentence pair; and (iv) fine-tuning, by the
raled by reference herein. one or more processors, the neural network to predict, for
each given human-graded sentence pair of a plurality of
BACKGROUND human-graded sentence pairs, a grade allocated by a human
[0002] In recent years, research in natural language gen- grader to the given human-gtaded sentence pair. In some
eration (“NLG”) has made tremendous progress, with mod- aspects, the method further comprises: p: retrammng, by the
els now able to translate text, summarize articles, engage in ONE OF NOTE PLOCESSOrs, the neural network to predict a mask
conversation, and comment on pictures with unprecedented token in cach of a plurality of masked language modeling
accuracy, using approaches with increasingly high levels of tasks; and pretraining, by the one or MOFE PrOCESsOrs, the
sophistication. ‘he pace of development in this area has neural network to Predict, for each given next-sentence
created a need for an efficient way of evaluating the quality prediction task of a plurality of next-sentence prediction
(e.g.. accuracy and fluency) of an NLG model’s output. tasks, whether a second passage of text of the given next-
Cutrently, there are two general approaches to evaluating the senlence prediction task directly follows a first passage of
performance of NLG systems: human evaluation and auto- text of the given next-sentence prediction task. In some
matic metrics. Human evaluation typically involves a large- aspects, the method further comprises: generating, by the
scale quality survey for each new version of an NI. model ONE OF MOTE PLOCESSOrs, the plurality of masked language
in which human evaluators grade the NI.G model’s outputs, modeling tasks; and generating, by the one or more proces-
eg. by comparing how well a sentence crealed by an NLG sors, the plurality of next-sentence prediction tasks. In some
model matches the meaning and fluency of a reference aspects, generating the plurality of synthetic sentence pairs
sentence created by a human. While humans are unrivaled.in comprises, for each Biven syntheti © sentence pair of a first
their ability to flexibly interpret and compare language subset of the synthetic sentence pairs: translating, by the one
samples, using human evaluators for large-scale tests can be OF MOFE PFOCESSOFS, the original passage of text of the given
prohibitively time- and labor-intensive. On the other hand, synthetic sentence pair from a first language into a second
existing automatic metrics are efficient and can be run on language, to create a translated passage of text; and tans-
demand, but can be overly literal and provide inconsistent lating, by the one or more processors, the translated passage
results compared to human evaluators. of text from the second language into the first language, to
create the moditied passage of text of the given synthetic
BRIEF SUMMARY sentence pair. In some aspects, generating the plurality of
synthetic sentence pairs comprises, for cach given synthetic
[0003] The present technology relates to improved sys- sentence pair of a second subset of the synthetic sentence
tems and methods for automatic evaluation of the quality of _ pairs, substituting one or more words of the original passage
NLG outputs. In that regard, in some aspects of the tech- of text of the given synthetic sentence pair to create the
nology, a learned evaluation model may be pretrained first modified passage of text of the given synthetic sentence pair.
using NIG model pretraining tasks, and then with further Tn some aspects, generating the plurality of synthetic sen-
pretraining tasks using automatically generated (syn- tence pairs further comprises, for each given synthetic
thetic”) sentence pairs. In some aspects, following pretrain- sentence pair of a third subset of the synthetic sentence pairs,
ing, the evaluation model may be further fine-tuned using a removing one or more words of the original passage of text
sel of human-graded sentence pairs, so il learns lo approxi- of the given synthetic sentence pair to create the modified
mate the grades allocated by the human evaluators. Using _ passage of text of the given synthetic sentence pair. In some
this combination of pretraining and fine-tuning steps, the —_ aspects, the method further comprises generating, by the one
evaluation model can produce grades that are up to 48% or more processors, for cach given synthetic sentence pair of
more accurate (relative to human gradings) than other auto- _the plurality of synthetic sentence pairs: one or more third
matic metrics such as the BLEU metric. training signals of the plurality of training signals based on
[0004] In one aspect, the disclosure describes a method of one or more scores generated by comparing the original
training a neural network, comprising: (i) generating, by one passage of text of the given synthelic sentence pair to the
or more processors of a processing system, a plurality of modified passage of text of the given synthetic sentence pair
synthetic sentence pairs, each synthetic sentence pair of the using one or more automatic metrics. In some aspects, the
plurality of synthelic sentence pairs comprising an original one or more aulomalic metrics includes at least one of the
passage of text and a modified passage of text; (ii) gener- BLEU metric, the ROUGE metric, or the BER score metric.
aling, by the one or more processors, for each given syn- In some aspects, the method further comprises generating,
thetic sentence pair of the plurality of synthetic sentence by the one or more processors, for cach given synthetic
pairs: a first training signal of a plurality of training signals sentence pair of the plurality of synthetic sentence pairs: one
based on whether the given synthetic sentence pair was or more fourth training signals of the plurality of training
generated using, backtranslation; and one or more second signals based on a prediction from a textual entailment

US 2024/0012999 Al Jan. 11, 2024
2
model regarding a likelihood that the modified passage of of text of the given synthetic sentence pair. In some aspects,
text of the given synthelic sentence pair entails or contra- the one or more processors being configured to generate the
dicts the original passage of text of the given synthetic plurality of synthetic sentence pairs further comprises being
sentence pair. In some aspects, the method further comprises configured to, for each given synthetic sentence pair of a
generating, by the one or more processors, for each given third subset of the synthetic sentence pairs, remove one or
synthetic sentence pair of the plurality of synthetic sentence more words of the original passage of text of the given
pairs: one or more Jourth training signals of the plurality of synthetic sentence pair to create the modified passage of text
training signals based on a prediction from a textual entail- of the given synthetic sentence pair. In some aspects, the one
ment model regarding a likelihood that the modified passage or more processors are lurther configured to generate, for
of text of the given synthetic sentence pair entails or each given synthetic sentence pair of the plurality of syn-
contradicts the original passage of text of the given synthetic thetic sentence pairs: one or more third training signals of
sentence pair. the plurality of training signals based on one or more scores
= | ean ae cote. generated by comparing the original passage of text of the
000s] {n another aspect, the disclosure describes a Pro- given synthetic sentence pair to the modified passage of text
cessing system Jed to then a tory. The and one or more of the given synthetic sentence pair using one or more
processors coupled to the memory. The one or more pro- automatic metrics. In some aspects, the one or more auto-
CESSOTS ATC configured to: () generate ap lurality of synthetic matic metrics includes at least one of the BLEU metric, the
sentence pairs, each synthetic sentence pair of the plurality ROUGE metric, or the BE-RTscore metric. In some aspects,
of synthetic sone palts cook nisin an original an o the one or more processors are lurther configured to gener-
text and a modified passage of text, (ii) generate, Tor each ate, for each given synthetic sentence pair of the plurality of
given synthetic sentence pair of the plurality of synthetic synthetic sentence pairs: one or more fourth training signals
sentence pairs: a first training signal ofa plurality of trainin: “ts . nyt . ers
sionals rn d on wheth ihe aven sv ’ lic ty lene ne of the plurality of training signals based on a prediction from
Sten na . “ise Pisin * bs ok ne Sion syn i” 1¢ semlence pair a textual entailment model regarding a likclihood that the
was generaled using Backlranslaion; and one or more sec- modified passage of text of the given synthetic sentence pair
ond tramung sigt nal s of the plurality of training signals based entails or contradicts the original passage of text of the given
on a prediction from a backtranslation prediction model synthetic sentence pair. In some aspects, the one or more
regarding a likelihood that one of the original passage of text processors are further configured to generate, for each given
or the modified passage of text of the given synthetic synthetic sentence pair of the plurality of synthetic sentence
sentence pair could have been generated by backtranslating pairs: one or more fourth training signals of the plurality of
the other one of the original passage of text or the modified training signals based on a prediction from a textual entail-
passage a text or the ane a syntlietic jomenre Paur: (iit) ment model regarding a likelihood that the modified passage
pretrain the neural network to predict, for each given syn- of text of the given synthelic sentence pair entails or
thetic sentence pair of the plurality of synthetic sentence contradicts the original pas sage of text of the given syn-
pairs, the plurality of taining signals for the given synthetic thetic sentence pair -
sentence pair; and (iv) fine-tune the neural network to ,
predict, for each given human-graded sentence pair of a BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
plurality of human-graded sentence pairs, a grade allocated ° ° ,
by a human grader to the given human-graded sentence pair. [0006] FIG. 1 is a functional diagram of an example
Tn some aspects, the one or more processors are further system in accordance with aspects of the disclosure.
configured to: pretrain the neural network to predict a mask [0007] FIG. 2 depicts an example training protocol show-
token in each of a plurality of masked language modeling ing how an evaluation model may be pretrained and fine-
tasks; and pretrain the neural network to predict, for each tunod, according to aspects of the disclosure.
given next-sentence prediction task of a plurality of next- [0008] FIG. 3 is a flow diagram showing an exemplary
© . . oe eke ws . ‘HIG, 3 is 2 agran g an e3 a
sentence prediction tasks, w hether a second passage of text method for pretraining the evaluation model using a masked
of the given next-sentence prediction task directly follows a language modoling task, according to aspects of the disclo-
first passage of text of the given next-sentence prediction sure.
task. In some aspects, the one or more processors are further 0009 FIG. 4 is a flow di howi lary
configured to: generate the plurality of masked language [ ‘th ] d f asa me oat oath vy adel amine a wd
modcling tasks; and generate the plurality of next-sentence sent od tor acto tek e ordi: ae mo e ofthe “heel °
prediction tasks. In some aspects, the one or more processors sen lence prediction task, according to aspects of the disclo-
being configured to generate the plurality of synthetic sen- sure. ; . . .
tence pairs comprises being configured to, for cach given [0010] PIG. 5 is a flow diagram showing an exemplary
synthetic sentence pair of a first subset of the synthetic method for generating a synthetic sentence pair using ran-
sentence pairs: translate the original passage of text of the dom substitutions. according to aspects of the disclosure.
given synthetic sentence pair from a first language into a [0011] FIG. 6 is a flow diagram showing an exemplary
second language, to create a translated passage of text; and method. for generating a synthelic sentence pair using ran-
translate the translated passage of text from the second dom omissions, according to aspects of the disclosure.
language into the first language, to create the modilied [0012] FIG. 7 is a flow diagram showing an exemplary
passage of (ext of he given synthetic sentence pair. In some method for generating a synthetic sentence pair using back-
aspects, ole or more processors being configured to generate translation, according to aspects of the disclosure.
the plurality of synthetic sentence pairs further comprises
being configured to, for cach given synthetic sentence pair DETAILED DESCRIPTION
of a second subset of the synthetic sentence pairs, substitute
one or more words of the original passage of text of the [0013] The present technology will now be described with
iven synthetic sentence pair to create the modified passage respect to the following exemplary systems and methods.
e y Pp Pp 2 P 3 plary sy

US 2024/0012999 Al Jan. 11, 2024
3

Example Systems different from that of the processor(s), such as in an external
[0014] A high-level system diagram 100 of an exemplary database o networked storage device. Accordingly. ier
processing system for performing the methods described ences to a processor or computing device will be understoo
herein is shown in FIG. 1. The processing system 102 may to include references toa collection of processors or com-
include one or more processors 104 and memory 106 storing puting devices or memories that may or may not operate in
instructions 108 and data 110. The instructions 108 and data paral lel, as well as one or more servers of a load-balanced
110 may include the evaluation model described herein, as server farm or cloud-based system. . :
well as some or all of the data used in pretraining and/or [oors] : The computing devices described herein may store
fine-tuning of the evaluation model. Similarly, the instruc- instructions capable of being executed directly (such as
fions 108 and data 110 may include the NLG model machine code) or indirectly (such as scripts) by the proces-
described herein. Tlowever, any of the evaluation model, sor(s). The computing devices may also store data, which
NLG model, pretraining data, and/or fine-tuning data may may be retneved, stored, or modified by one or more
also be mainlained. on one or more separate processing processors in accordance with the instructions. Instructions
systems or storage devices to which the processing system muy be stored as computing device code on a computing
102 has access. For example, the evaluation model could be deviec-reada ble mediun m. In that regard, the terms AnSUITC-
stored on a cloud-computing system, in which case the see and progr nls be ay be usec interchangeably even.
processing system 102 may provide input to, receive output dnev mens may b a © stored In Object co © rian “r
from, and make changes to the evaluation model via one or ireet processing Oy Te P rocessor(s), Or in any other com
more networks (not shown) in order to perform the pretrain- puting device language including scripts or collections of
ing and fine-tuning described herein. Likewise, the pretrain- independent source code modules that are interpreted on
ing, data and/or fine-tuning data may be stored on one or demand or compiled in advanee. By way of example, the
more remote servers, such as web servers, in which case the Programuning, language may be C 1, C++, JAVA or another
processing system 102 may retrieve daia from such web computer programming language. Similarly, any ompo-
servers and provide it to the evaluation model. nents of the instructions or programs may be implemented in
[0015] Processing system 102 may be implemented on a computer scripling language, such. as JavaScripl, PLIP,
any type of computing device(s), such as any type of general ASP, or any other computer scripting language. Further-
computing device, server, or set thereof, and may further more, any one of these components may be. implemented
include other components typically present in general pur- using & combination of computer programming languages
pose computing devices or servers. Memory 106 stores and computer scripting languages.
information accessible by the one or more processors 104, Examnle Methods
including instructions 108 and data 110 that may be xamp
sxceuted 106 aoe hea ae vomerantitoes ee enable ‘4 Pretraining Evaluation Model Using NIG Pretraining Tasks
storing information accessible by the processor(s) 104. For [0019] FIG. 2 depicts an example training protocol 200
instance, memory 106 may include a non-transilory medium showing how an evaluation model may be pretrained and.
such as a hard-drive, memory card, optical disk, solid-state, fine-tuned according lo aspects ef the disclosure. In the
tape memory, or the like. Computing devices suitable for the example of FIG. 2, the evaluation model is a deep neural
roles described herein may include different combinations of network with any suitable number of layers, units, heads,
the foregoing, whereby different portions of the instructions etc. For example, in some aspects of the technology, the
and data are stored on different types of media. evaluation model may be based on a multi-layer bidirec-
[0016] In all cases, the computing devices described tional transformer such as the architecture used for the
herein may further include any other components normally Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers
used in connection with a computing device such as a user (“BERT”) language model. Tn that regard, in some aspects,
interface subsystem. ‘he user interface subsystem may the evaluation model may be based on a BERT-style trans-
include one or more user inputs (c.g., a mouse, keyboard, former with 12 layers, 768 hidden units, and 12 heads.
touch screen and/or microphone) and one or more electronic Likewise, in some aspects, the evaluation model may be
displays (e.g., a monitor having a screen or any other based on a BER I-style transformer with 24 layers, 1024
electrical device that is operable to display information). hidden unils, and. 16 heads.
Output devices besides an electronic display, such as speak- [0020] As shown in element 202 of FIG. 2, the evaluation
ers, lights, and. vibraling, pulsing, or haptic elements, may model may be pretrained first using one or more types of
also be included in the computing devices described herein. NIG pretraining tasks 204. This may comprise any type or
[0017] The one or more processors included in each types of pretraining tasks suitable lor imparting general
computing device may be any conventional processors, such Janguage comprehension to the evaluation model. For
as commercially available central processing units example, as shown in the illustrative training protocol 200 of
(“CPUs”), graphics processing units (“GPUs”), tensor pro- FIG. 2, the evaluation model may be Wainmed using a set of
cessing units (“TPUs”), etc. Alternatively, the one or more masked language modeling tasks (as indicated in clement
processors may be a dedicated. device such as an ASIC or 206) and/or a set of next-sentence prediction tasks (as
olher hardware-based. processor. Each processor may have indicated in clement 208).
multiple cores that are able to operate in parallel. ‘The [0021] With further regard to element 206, FIG. 3 is a flow
processor(s), memory, and other elements of a single com- diagram showing an exemplary method. 300 for pretraining
puting device may be stored within a single physical hous- the evaluation model using a masked language modcling
ing, or may be distributed between two or more housings. task, according to aspects of the disclosure. In that regard, in
Similarly, the memory of a computing device may include a step 302. a passage of text (c.g., a sentence fragment,
hard drive or other storage media located in a housing sentence, multiple sentences) is harvested from a source

US 2024/0012999 Al Jan. 11, 2024
4
document (e.g., a webpage from Wikipedia, a book, a news documents (e.g., webpages from Wikipedia, books, news
article). In step 304, one or more words from the passage are articles), as reflected in element 212. Although the term
replaced with a mask token (e.g., “~[MASK]”). Steps 302 and “sentence pairs” is used in this context for simplicity, a
304 may be performed manually (e.g., by a human), or synthetic sentence pair need not include two full sentences.
automatically (e.g., by the evaluation model, by some other Rather, a synthetic sentence pair may in fact be a pair of
component of processing system 102, by some other pro- sentence fragments, or a pair of text passages that each
cessing system). Finally, in step 306, the evaluation model include more than one sentence, etc.
is trained to predict the original word corresponding to each [0025] AS shown in element 212, the processing system
mask token based at least in part on one or more additional 102 may generate one or more different types of synthetic
documents from a knowledge corpus (¢.g.. other webpages sentence pairs from the set of source documents, such as:
from Wikipedia, other books, other news articles). The sentence pairs in which one or more words of an original
evaluation model may be tained using any suitable loss passage A are randomly replaced in order to create an allered
function, such as a cross-cntropy loss between the evalua- passage B (as reflected in element 214); sentence pairs in
tion model’s prediction and the known answer of each which one or more words of an original passage A are
masked language modeling task. randomly omitted to create an altered passage B (as reflected
[0022] With further regard to element 208, FIG.4isaflow in element 216); and sentence pairs in which an original
diagram showing an exemplary method 400 for pretraining passage A is translated into a different language, and then
the evaluation model using a next-sentence prediction task, retranslated back into the original language in order to create
according to aspects of the disclosure. In that regard, in step an altered passage B (as reflected in element 218). Exem-
402. a first passage of text (“passage 1”) is selected from a plary methods for generating the synthetic sentence pairs
source document (e.g., a webpage from Wikipedia, a book, reflected in elements 214, 216, and 218 are set forth in FIGS.
a news article). Likewise, in step 404, a second passage of 5, 6, und. 7, respectively.
text (“passage 2”) is selected from the same source docu- [0026] In that regard, FIG. 5 is a flow diagram showing an
ment. In the example of 1G. 4, in 50% of the cases, passage exemplary method 500 for generating a synthetic sentence
2 will be the text that directly follows passage 1 in the source pair using random substitutions, according to aspects of the
document, and in 50% of cases passage 2 will be some other disclosure. Tn step 502, the processing system 102 samples
nonscquential passage of text sclected at random from the a passage of text (passage A) [rom a source document. In
remainder of the source document. In this context, passages step 504, the processing system 102 randomly selects one or
1 and 2 may be sentence fragments, single sentences, more words from passage A to be replaced. Finally, in step
passages containing more than onc sentence, passages con- 506, the processing system 102 replaces cach selected word
taining a fixed number of words, etc. Here as well, steps 402 in passage A with a replacement word, resulting in a second
and 404 may be performed manually (e.g., by a human), or passage of text (passage B). In the context of FIG. 5, passage
automatically (e.g.. by the evaluation model, by some other A and passage B together form a “sentence pair.” The
component of processing: system 102, by some other pro- replacement words referred to in step 506 may be obtained
cessing system). Finally, in step 406, the evaluation model from any suitable source. For example, in some aspects of
is trained to predict whether passage 2 directly [ollows the technology, a separate NIG model may be trained to
passage | based on the words of passage 1 and passage 2. In provide each replacement word, so that the sentence is
this case as well, the evaluation model may be trained using lexically altered while maintaining fluency. Likewise, in
any suitable loss function, such as a cross-cntropy loss some aspects of the technology, a thesaurus may be used to
between the evaluation model’s prediction and the known provide a replacement word that has a similar meaning (in
answer of each next-sentence prediction task. at least some contexts) to the selected word. Further, in some
[0023] In the example of IGS, 2-4, the masked language —_ aspects of the technology, replacement words may be chosen
modeling tasks and the next-sentence prediction tasks may at random. without regard to maintaining fluency and/or
be run in parallel. In that regard, the training steps shown in overall meaning of the sentence.
step 306 of FIG. 3 and step 406 of FIG. 4 may take place in [0027] FIG. 6 is a flow diagram showing an exemplary
parallel, and the evaluation model may be wained through an — method 600 tor generating a synthetic sentence pair using
iterative process of calculating and sunaming cach of the random omissions, according to aspects of the disclosure. In
losses described above, and modifying the evaluation mod- step 602, the processing system 102 samples a passage of
el’s parameter Ss until the mean combined loss value text (passage A) from a source document. In step 604, the
becomes minimized (or begins approaching, a minimum processing system 102 randomly selects one or more words
value). The number of steps necessary to adequately pretrain from passage A. Finally, in step 606, the processing system
the evaluation model using such masked language modeling 102 deletes each selected word from passage A, resulting in
and next-sentence prediction tasks may vary depending on a second. passage of text (passage B). In the context of TIG.
the size of the passages and the number ol possible tokens. 6, passage A and passage B together form a “sentence pair.”
For example, adequate NLG pretraining may require 1,000, 0028] FIG. 7 is a flow diavram showing : k
000 training steps (or more or less). I ] vf 1S a Mow Magram owns an exemplary
method 700 for generating a synthetic sentence pair using
Pretraining Tvaluation Model Using Synthetic Sentence backtranslation, according to aspects of the disclosure. In
Pairs step 702, the processing system 102 samples a passage of
text (passage A) from a source document, with passage A
[0024] Following pretraining on any NLG pretraining being wrilten in a first language (e.g., English). In step 704,
tasks 204 (to the extent such is employed), the evaluation the processing system 102 translates passage A from the first
model is pretrained using synthetic sentence pairs as shown language into a second language (c¢.g., French, German),
in clement 210 of FIG. 2. The processing system 102 may resulting in a second passage of text (passage A’). Finally, in
generate these synthetic sentence pairs from a set of source step 706, the processing system 102 translates passage A’

US 2024/0012999 Al Jan. 11, 2024
5
from the second language back into the first language, pair (e.g., one or more of the BERTscore scores themselves,
resulting in a third passage of text (passage B). In the context normalized versions of one or more of BERTscore scores,
of FIG. 7, passage A and passage B together form a etc.)
“sentence pair.” With respect to steps 704 and 706, the [0035] In some aspects of the technology, cach sentence
processing system 102 may be configured to perform the pair may be encoded with a first training signal based on the
translations between the first and second languages itself, or pairs BILRU score, a second training, signal based on all
may be configured to obtain the translations from another three of the pair’s ROUGE scores (recall, precision, and
processing system (e.g., a website available over one or F-score), and a third training signal based on all three of the
more networks). pair’s BERTscore scores (recall, precision, and F-score). Tn
[0029] As shown in element 220, after the processing some aspects of the technology, additional training signals
system 102 has generated synthetic sentence pairs, it may may be based. on other calculated or learned automatic
encode them with a sel of training signals. In thal regard, the metrics, and may be added (o or substituted for one or more
processing system 102 may encode each synthetic sentence of those described herein.
pair with training signals based on one or more of: a [0036] With respect to element 226, the processing system
synthelic sentence pair generation Mag (element 222); the 102 may also evaluale each synthetic sentence pair using a
output of one or more automatic metrics (element 224); the learned backtranslation prediction model. In that regard, a
output of a learned backtranslation prediction model (ele- backtranslation prediction model may be trained to assess
ment 226); and the output of a learned textual cntailment the probability that a first passage is a backtranslation of a
model (element 228). second passage, or vice versa. Lhe backtranslation model
[0030] With respect to element 222, when the processing may re trained to make I uch a p redietion based on transla-
system 102 generates each synthelic sentence pair, il may tion between any two languages. For example, in some
regen ~ aspects of the technology, the backtranslation prediction
also generate a Boolean flag indicating whether or not del + be confioured t ly fene rr
backtranslation was used lo creale the pair’s “passage B.” model may pe conrigured’ t analyze a sentence pair com
: : posed of passage A and passage B and return one or both of
That Boolean flag may be encoded into the sentence pair as the following scores: ar “Loe
aaa - . : e following scores: (1) a score representing the likelihood
a training signal to be used in training the evaluation model, hat pass B is tt sult of translating passage A from
as described further below. tha Passage i? is ie result ¢ ' s & Dassage /
linglish to French to get passage A', and. translating passage
[0031] With respect to element 224, the processing system A' from French back into English: and (2) a score repre-
102 may also evaluate each synthetic sentence pair using senting the likelihood that passage A is the result of trans-
one or more existing automatic metrics, and encode each lating passage B trom English to French to get passage B',
sentence pair with one or more training signals based on the and translating passage B' from French back into English.
score(s) produced by the one or more automatic metrics. [0037] Likewise, in some aspects, the backtranslation pre-
Any suitable automatic metric or collection thereof may be diction model may be configured to make predictions based
used in this regard. on translations between more than two languages. ‘hus, for
[0032] For example, in some aspects of the technology, example, the backtranslation prediction model may be con-
cach synthetic sentence pair may be evaluated using the figured analyze a sentence pair composed of passage Aand
BLEU metric, which calculates a score based on n-gram passage B and return one or more of the following Scores:
overlap between two passages. A training signal (¢.g., a (1) a score representing the likelihood that passage B is the
vector) may he encoded into each sentence pair that includes result of translating passage A from Fnglish to French to get
a value based on the sentence pair’s BLEU score (e.g. the Passage A’, and translating passage A’ from French back into
BLEU score itself, a normalized version of the BI-FU score, Tnglish; (2) a score representing the likelihood that passage
etc.) Ais the result of translating passage B from Lnglish to
oo French to get passage B', and translating passage B' from
[0033] Likewise, in some aspects of the technology, each French back into English; (3) a score representing the
synthetic sentence pair may be evaluated using the ROUGE jixelihood that passage B is the result of translating passage
metric, which calculates three dillerent scores based on A from English to German to get passage A’, and translating
n-gram overlap between two passages: a recall score indi- passage A' from German back into English; and (4) a score
cating how many n-grams of passage A are repeated in representing the likelihood that passage A is the result of
passage B; a precision score indicating the percentage of the translating passage B from English to German to get passage
repeated n-grams relative to the total n-grams of passage B; Bi, and translating passage B’ from German back into
and an F-score, which isa harmonic mean of the recall and English. A training signal (e.g., a vector) may be encoded
Precision scores. A training signal (6-8 a vector) may be into each sentence pair that includes values based on one or
encoded into each sentence pair that includes values based more such scores output by the backtranslation prediction
on one or more of the scores output by the ROUGE metric model for that sentence pair (e.g., one or more values
(e.g., one or more of the ROUGT. scores themselves, nor actually output by the backtranslalion prediction model,
malized versions of one or more of ROUGE scores, etc.) normalized versions of one or more values output by the
[0034] Vurther, in some aspects of the technology, each backtranslation prediction model, etc.).
synthetic sentence pair may be evaluated using the [0038] With respect to element 228, the processing system
BER'Iscore metric, which is a metric that combines learned 102 may also evaluate each synthetic sentence pair using a
contextual embeddings with specific token alignment rules Jeamed textual entailment model. ‘The textual entailment
to produce a recall, precision, and F-score. Here as well, a model may be trained to assign a probability that a first
training signal (¢.g., a vector) may be encoded into cach passage entails (tends to confirm or be in agreement with) a
sentence pair that includes values based on one or more of second passage, contradicts the second passage, or neither
the scores output by the BERTscore metric for that sentence entails nor contradicts the second passage and is thus

US 2024/0012999 Al Jan. 11, 2024
6
neutral. A training signal (e.g., a vector) may be encoded into ming each loss value, and modifying the evaluation model’s
each sentence pair that includes values based on the entail- parameters, until the mean combined loss becomes mini-
ment, contradiction, and neutrality probabilities output by mized (or begins approaching a minimum value). The num-
the textual entailment model for that sentence pair (e.g., the ber of steps necessary to adequately fine-tune the evaluation
actual predictions output by the textual entailment model, model using encoded synthetic sentence pairs may vary
normalized versions of the textual entailment model’s pre- depending on the size of the passages. For example,
dictions, etc.) adequale fine-tuning using human-graded. sentence pairs
[0039] After the processing system 102 has encoded each may require 40,000 training steps (or more or less).
synthetic sentence pair with one or more training, signals as [0042] The present technology may be used to assess any
just described, they are used to train the evaluation model. type of NLG output such as data-to-text summarics,
In that regard. the evaluation model is fed each synthetic machine-translation, conversational AT, etc., and the data
sentence pair (without Lhe encoded training signals), and is used to fine-tune the evaluation model may be tailored to
trained to predict each score based on the text of the such intended use. Thus, in some aspects of the technology,
synthetic sentence pairs. In each training step, the model’s the human-graded sentence pairs may include ones in which
predictions are compared to cach respective training signal the first “sentence” is a reference passage created by a
and a loss value is generated. Although any suitable loss human based on some dala (e.g., a human-generated. sen-
function(s) may be used, in the example of FIG. 2, the tence based on data about a sports match, and summarizing
processing system 102 calculates: (1) a multi-class loss the outcome of the sports match), the second “sentence” is
between each of the evaluation model’s predictions and any a passage that was synthetically generated by an NLG model
respective training signals based on synthetic sentence pair based on that data, and the human-allocated grade is a score
generation flags (element 232 of FIG. 2); (2) a regression that has been allocated by a different human assessing how
loss between each of the evaluation model’s predictions and well the NLG-generated passage compares to the human-
any respective training signals based on automatic metrics generated passage. I.ikewise, in some aspects of the tech-
(element 234 of l'IG. 2); (3) a regression loss between each nology, the human-pgraded sentence pairs may include ones
of the evaluation model's predictions and any respective in which the first “sentence” is a source passage written in
training signals based on a backtranslation prediction model a first language, the second “sentence” is a NI .G-generated
(clement 236 of FIG. 2); and (4) a multi-class loss between machine-translation of the first “sentence” into a second
each of the evaluation model’s predictions and any respec- language, and the human-allocated grade represents how
tive training signals based on a textual entailment model accuralely the second passage is believed to capture the
(clement 238 of FIG. 2). Here as well, the evaluation model meaning of the first passage.
may be trained through an iterative process of calculating [0043] In addition, in some aspects of the present tech-
and Sumnung each of the losses described above, and nology, the “sentence pairs” used for fine-tuning need not be
modifying the evaluation model’s parameter: S, until the the only information provided to the evaluation model, and
mean. combined loss value becomes minimized (or begins thus may be augmented with further context. For example,
approaching a minimum value). The number of steps nlec- for a “sentence pair” in which a human-graded reference
essary lo adequately pretrain, the evaluation model using, sentence and an NI.G-model-generated candidate sentence
encoded synthelic sentence pairs may vary depending on the were both created by summarizing a passage of text, that
size of the passages, the number of possible tokens, the passage of text may be provided to the evaluation model as
number of training signals, ctc. For example, adequate additional input to be weighed in determining how well the
pretraining using the tasks and training signals just described. NLG-generated passage compares to the human-generated
may require between 400,000 and 800,000 taining steps (or passage. Likewise, for a “sentence pair” in which a human-
more or less). graded reference sentence and an NLG-model-generated
oe ; . . candidate sentence both represent a responsive communica-
B ine-Tuning Evaluation Model Using Human-Rated tion in a written conversation, a log of that past conversation
Sentence Pairs may be provided to the evaluation model as additional input
[0040] As shown in clements 240 and 242 of FIG. 2, atter to be weighed in determining how well the NI .G-generated
the evaluation model has been pretrained using NLG pre- Passage compares to the human-generaled passage.
training tasks and synthetic sentence pairs as described [0044] Unless otherwise stated, the foregoing alternative
above, it may be further fine-tuned using human-graded examples are not mutually exclusive, but may be imple-
sentence pairs. As above, although the term “sentence pairs” mented in various combinations to achieve unique advan-
is used for simplicity, a human-graded “sentence pair” need tages. As these and other variations and combinations of the
not include two full sentences, and may instead include features discussed above can be utilized without departing
sentence fragments, passages including more than one sen- from the subject matter defined by the claims, the foregoing
tence, etc. In this fine-tuning stage, the evaluation model is description of exemplary systems and methods should he
(rained to predict the human-allocated grade for each sen- taken by way of illustration rather than by way of limitation
tence-pair. Thus, the human-allocated grade may be used as of the subject matter defined by the claims. In addition, the
a training signal, and a loss may be calculated between the provision of the examples described herein, as well as
evaluation model’s prediction for cach sentence pair and the clauses phrased as “such us,” “including,” “comprising,”
respective human-allocated grade. Any suitable loss func- and the like, should not be interpreted as limiting the subject
tion may be used for this, such as a regression loss between matter of the claims to the specific examples; rather, the
the evaluation model’s prediction and the human-allocated examples are intended to illustrate only some of the many
grade. possible embodiments. Further, the same reference numbers
[0041] Here as well, the evaluation model may be fine- in different drawings can identify the same or similar ele-
tuned through an iterative process of calculating and sum- ments.

US 2024/0012999 Al Jan. 11, 2024
7

1. A method of training a neural network, comprising: have been generated by backtranslating the other one of the

generating a first training signal of a plurality of training original passage of text or the modified passage of text of the

signals; and given synthetic sentence pair.

generating one or more second training signals of the 14. A processing system comprising:

plurality of training signals based on a prediction from memory; and

a textual entailment model regarding a likelihood that one or more processors operatively coupled to the
a modified passage of text of a given synthelic sentence memory and configured to:

pair entails or contradicts an original passage of text of generate a first training signal of a plurality of training
the given synthetic sentence pair: signals, and

pretraining, by one or more processors, the neural net- generale one or more second training signals of the

work to predict the plurality of training signals for the plurality of training signals based on a prediction
given synthetic sentence pair; and from a textual entailment model regarding a likeli-
fine-tuning, by the one or more processors, the neural hood that a modified passage of text of a given
network to predict a grade allocated to a graded sen- synthetic sentence pair entails or contradicts an origi-
tence pair. nal passage of text of the given synthetic sentence

2. The method of claim 1, wherein the pretraining, further pair;
includes pretraining the neural network to predict a mask pretrain a neural network to predict the plurality of
token in one or more masked language modeling tasks. training signals for the given synthetic sentence pair;

3. The method of claim 2, further comprising generaling, and
the one or more masked language modeling tasks. fine-tune the neural network to predict a grade allocated

4. The method of claim 1, wherein the pretraining further to a graded sentence pair.
includes pretraining the neural network to predict, for a 15. The processing system of claim 14, wherein the one
next-sentence prediction task, whether a second passage of or more processors are further configured to pretrain the
text of the next-sentence prediction task directly follows a neural network to predict a mask token im one or more
first passage of text of the next-sentence prediction task. masked language modcling tasks.

§. The method of claim 4, further comprising generating, 16. The processing system of claim 14, wherein the one
the next-sentence prediction task. or more processors are further configured to pretrain the

6. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating, neural network to predict, for a next-sentence prediction
the given synthetic sentence pair. task, whether a second passage of text of the next-sentence

7. The method of claim 6, wherein generating the given prediction task directly follows a first passage of text of the
synthetic sentence pair comprises translating the original nexl-sentence prediction task.
passage of text from a first language into a second language, 17. The processing system of claim 14, wherein the one
to create a translated passage of text. or more processors are further configured to generate the

8. The method of claim 7. wherein generating the given given synthetic sentence pair by translation of the original
synthetic sentence pair further comprises translating the passage of text from a first language into a second language,
translated passage of text from the second language into the _—‘t© create a translated passage of text.
first language, to create the modified passage of text of the 18. The processing system of claim 17, wherein genera-
given synthetic sentence pair. tion of the given synthetic sentence pair further comprises

9. The method of claim 1, wherein the grade allocated to translation of the translated passage of text from the second
a graded-sentence pair is based on one or more human- language into the first language, to create the modified
graded sentence puirs. passage of text of the given synthetic sentence pair.

10. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating, 19. The processing system of claim 14, wherein the one
for the given synthetic sentence pair, a third training signal or more processors are further configured to generate, for the
of the plurality of training signals based on one or more given synthetic sentence pair, a third taining signal of the
scores generated by comparing the original passage of text plurality of training signals based on one or more scores
to the modified passage of text. generated by comparison of the original passage of text to

1. The method of claim 10, wherein comparing the he modified passage of text.
original passage of text to the modified passage of text is 20. ‘Lhe processing system of claim 14, wherein the one
performed using one or more automatic metrics. or more processors are further configured to generate, for the

12. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more given synthetic sentence pair, a third training signal of the
automatic metrics includes at least one of the BLEU metric, plurality of training signals based on a prediction from a
the ROUGE metric, or the BERTscore metric. backtranslation prediction model regarding a likelihood that

13. ‘Lhe method of claim 1, further comprising generating, one of the original passage of text or the modified passage
for the given synthetic sentence pair, a third training signal of text of the given synthetic sentence pair could have been
of the plurality of training signals based ona prediction from generated by backtranslation of the other one of the original
a backtranslation prediction model regarding a likelihood passage of text or the modified passage of tex! of the given
that one of the original passage of text or the moditied synthelic sentence pair.
passage of text of the given synthetic sentence pair could * ek ok ®